--- --- --- --- ABOUT SCALER Scaler (by InterviewBit) is an outcome-focused leading ed-tech platform for tech enthusiasts. We are a transformative tech school devoted to creating a growth ecosystem to assist software professionals in unlocking talent & opportunities at every stage of their career. We are empowering learners with cutting-edge AI tools and frameworks, ensuring that our learners are both industry-ready and future-ready. Our curriculum integrates AI-driven approaches to problem-solving, making Scaler graduates stand out in the age of Artificial Intelligence. --- --- index 04 Tech Landscape 05 Build AI Skills 15 Success Stories 06 Academy Overview 18 Batch Profile 07 Scaler Advantage 19 Meet our Instructors 08 Who is this for? 21 Meet our Mentors 09 Curriculum Outline 24 Scaler Support 13 Level Up With IIT-Roorkee 26 How to Enrol? 14 IIT-Roorkee Campus 27 Your Immersion Certificates --- --- 04 TECH LANDSCAPE The Industry Needs SDEs with AI Skills AI is revolutionising the tech industry, making it vital for SDEs to embrace this transformative technology. Whether you're building intelligent applications or optimising workflows, AI can be the edge that propels you to the forefront of innovation. 97 Million New Jobs 66% of Leaders Will be created by AI by Say they would not hire 2025, outpacing other professionals who lack sectors expertise in AI (Source: World Economic Forum) (Source: Microsoft) 71% of Employers 80% Professionals Prefer professionals with Working in tech will be AI skills to experienced expected to gain AI skills ones without by 2027 (Source: Microsoft) (Source: Gartner) --- --- 05 BUILD AI SKILLS Choose Scaler to Learn AI Scaler Academy bridges the gap between software development and AI expertise. With a structured curriculum, live classes by industry experts, and hands-on projects, youll master AI tools and techniques alongside core development skills. ENHANCE SDE SKILLS WITH AI As a software developer, integrating AI into your skillset empowers you to: Automate complex Develop intelligent Create innovative tasks and improve systems that learn UX with AI-driven efficiency and adapt personalisation --- --- 06 ACADEMY OVERVIEW A run-down of Scaler Academy Many aspiring engineers (like YOU!) face challenges due to outdated teaching methods and content. We have integrated AI-driven modules to bridge this gap and equip learners with skills that will make them future-ready. OLD STRATEGIES WONT OPEN NEW DOORS Unlock a brighter tech future with AI-powered insights and mentorship from MAANG veterans! Our curriculum is now infused with Artificial Intelligence, preparing you to tackle the toughest challenges in the tech world. With AI at the core of our training, youll not only stay relevant but lead innovation. Together, well help you #CreateImpact and accelerate your journey. Heres what you can expect as you go about exploring Scaler Academy's roadmap to success: Structured, flexible, industry-vetted curriculum Live classes by experts who have been there, done that Get hands-on experience with live projects Placement support & career guidance Regular 1:1 mentorship 9 - 11 months of dedicated learning AI-powered mock interviews & teaching assistance --- --- 07 SCALER ADVANTAGE Fastest route to your dream career As a technophile, you are enthusiastically searching for clues that will help you scale both professionally and academically. Scaler Academy will carefully weave your skills & enrich your learning experience. Track your progress Immediate evaluation through live report cards to monitor your progress 600+ partner employers Aspirational community of & placement assistance 20K+ Scaler learners & alumni Thorough learning Hyper-personalised through industry projects experience Flexible learning hours Resolve doubts with expert teaching assistants Attend a Free Class --- --- 08 WHO IS THIS FOR? Eligibility & Fit Check Before you begin your upskilling journey, your roots must be in: Engineering/ IT/Maths Background Developing role (Service-based company) Engineering role (Product-based company) Once you pass the eligibility criteria, lets find you a route: Our Program ensures that you get equipped with the confidence and skills required to overcome the most formidable hurdles a techie may encounter in their journey ahead. Take the Scaler Entrance Test: 16 MCQs and see where you fit. Take it from the Top: Hop on the Midway: Zoom to the Core: BEGINNER BATCH INTERMEDIATE BATCH ADVANCED BATCH 10.5 MONTHS 12 MONTHS 10 MONTHS Journey Journey Journey For learners with little For learners with basic For learners with notable or no coding experience coding experience coding experience --- --- 09 CURRICULUM OUTLINE The Blueprint to Success Our expert-led curriculum will prepare you for the toughest challenges that you may face in your journey to becoming a skilled programmer. Course Outline for Beginners 10.5 Months Core Outline Programming Language Fundamentals | Duration: 1.5 Months Data Structures and Algorithms | Duration: 4.5 Months SQL | Duration: 0.5 Month Specialisations* Frontend Engineering | Duration: 3 Months OR Backend Engineering | Duration: 3 Months System Design Essentials | Duration: 1 Month Electives** (Optional) High-Level Design | Duration: 1.5 Months AND/OR Data Engineering | Duration: 2 months AND/OR DSA for Competitive Programming | Duration: 1 month AND/OR Product Management for Engineers | Duration: 1 month AND/OR Gen AI for Software Engineers | Duration: 2 month * Only 1 Specialisation is allowed per learner. Recorded lectures for the other can be availed via Student Dashboard. At Least 1 Specialisation is mandatory for successful completion of the course. ** A learner can do as many electives as they want, but only after completion of Core Curriculum. --- --- 10 CURRICULUM OUTLINE The Blueprint to Success Course Outline for Intermediate 12 Months Core Outline Introduction to Problem Solving | Duration: 2 Months Data Structures and Algorithms | Duration: 4 Months Advance Language Concepts* | Duration: 1 Week Computer Science Fundamentals | Duration: 1 Month Low-Level Design | Duration: 1.5 Months High-Level Design | Duration : 1.5 Months Specialisations** Fullstack Engineering (Backend and Frontend) | Duration: 2 Months OR Data Engineering | Duration: 2 Months Electives*** (Optional) DSA for Competitive Programming | Duration: 1 Month AND/OR Product Management for Engineers | Duration: 1 Month AND/OR Gen AI for Software Engineers | Duration: 2 Month * To be conducted in an inverted classroom model (recorded lectures alongwith Live doubt resolution sessions) ** Only 1 Specialisation is allowed per learner. Recorded lectures for the other can be availed via Student Dashboard. At Least 1 Specialisation is mandatory for successful completion of the course. *** A learner can do as many electives as they want, but only after completion of Core Curriculum. --- --- 11 CURRICULUM OUTLINE The Blueprint to Success Course Outline for Advanced 10 Months Core Outline Data Structures and Algorithms | Duration: 4 Months Advance Language Concepts* | Duration: 1 Week Computer Science Fundamentals | Duration: 1 Month Low-Level Design | Duration: 1.5 Months High-Level Design | Duration : 1.5 Months Specialisation** Fullstack Engineering (Backend and Frontend) | Duration: 2 Months OR Data Engineering | Duration: 2 Months Electives*** (Optional) DSA for Competitive Programming | Duration: 1 Month AND/OR Product Management for Engineers | Duration: 1 Month AND/OR Gen AI for Software Engineers | Duration: 2 Month * To be conducted in an inverted classroom model (recorded lectures alongwith Live doubt resolution sessions) ** Only 1 Specialisation is allowed per learner. Recorded lectures for the other can be availed via Student Dashboard. At Least 1 Specialisation is mandatory for successful completion of the course. *** A learner can do as many electives as they want, but only after completion of Core Curriculum. --- --- Want to take a deeper dive into our curriculum? Click Here --- --- 13 LEVEL UP WITH IIT-ROORKEE Advanced AI Engineering Program From Indias Oldest Technical Institute Rank 8 on National Institutional Rank 6 on National Institutional Ranking Framework, Overall - Ranking Framework, Engineering - 2023 2024 With alumni in top roles at companies like Program Highlights Domain-specific AI use Curriculum designed by cases for practical learning expert IIT faculty Certificate from one of Learn by building AI & ML the top institutes in India applications for different problem statements Add-on by CEC IIT-Roorkee --- --- 14 Spend 2 Days on Campus Access to IIT-Roorkee research labs with resources & cutting-edge tech facilities at your Food & Fireside chat accommodation with industry included experts YOUR INSTRUCTOR FROM IIT-ROORKEE Pravendra Singh Assistant Professor, Ph.D. in CSE from IIT Kanpur 19 articles published in renowned journals 10+ awards & grants from IITs, Google, Microsoft, etc Add-on by CEC IIT-Roorkee IIT-ROORKEE CAMPUS IMMERSION To know more Click Here --- --- 15 SCALER SUCCESS STORIES Trusted to Deliver Excellence Our learners have experienced a noticeable leap in their careers post joining Scaler Academy. From guiding-mentoring to providing constructive 126% feedback(s), we at Scaler leave no stone unturned AVERAGE when it comes to our learners future. HIKE FOR SCALER LEARNERS 31.8% PROMOTION RATE (ONE 21.6 L YEAR POST SCALER) AVERAGE CTC FOR SCALER LEARNERS 2000+ SUCCESS STORIES OF SCALER LEARNERS 1.7 Cr HIGHEST PACKAGE OFFERED TO SCALER LEARNER --- --- 16 SCALER SUCCESS STORIES Dont take our word for it, take theirs! Wipro - Amazon Anuj Maurya Software Developer The quality of education in the academy boosted my skill level and pushed me. With their industry level experienced mock interviews and incredibly supportive mentors. Receiving an offer letter from Amazon before the completion of the entire course filled me with immense pleasure and boosted my Infosys - Samsung Priyanka Kumari Lead Engineer Thanks to Abhimanyu Saxena and Anshuman Singh for creating a wonderful learning platform. I would like to thank Kshitij Mishra, Naman Bhalla & Pragy Agarwal for their wonderful sessions. With their continuous efforts, the outcome is - I got offers from world's leading companies. They made the software development journey so easy. TCS - Adobe Akash Srivastava Software Engineer 2 Instead of being boxed into categories, we were encouraged to learn skills like dynamic programming and have fun. The mentor system is helpful for people like me who face difficulty finding the right guidance. I felt like I was articulating all my skills and investing my time in the right thing. --- --- 17 SCALER SUCCESS STORIES Dont take our word for it, take theirs! L&T - Microsoft Yash Vardhan Raizada Software Engineer I already had all the tools to find my way in the world, but Scaler and its faculty helped me understand how to use these tools. It also helped me form a framework to go for reputable jobs and curate my profile according to my strengths. Wipro - Walmart Sudhanshu Gera SDE 3 The turning point in my career came when I joined Scaler which really helped me get well-versed in almost every aspect of Software Development. Thanks to my mentors Rahul Yadav, Aman Mehta, Varun Garg, Anshuman Singh, Abhimanyu Saxena & Reetika Agrawal for guiding & supporting me enough to be working at the worlds largest company by revenue. Deloitte - Swiggy Chandrakanth Nethi SDE I would like to thank Scaler without which this would not have been possible. Scaler is the best investment I have made towards my career. All credit goes to Abhimanyu Saxena & Anshuman Singh for creating such a wonderful platform with Scaler instructors, intuitive classes, and thorough explanations of concepts. --- --- 18 BATCH PROFILE The Scaler Academy Batch Looks Stellar! Upskilling with experts is all well & good, but having a stellar batch makes your upskilling journey 10x more challenging & exciting. Meet your potential batchmates & brace yourself for a brighter skill-driven career. Learners Work 10+ Years Experience 2-5 Years 27.9% 9.4% 22.4% 40.3% 5-10 Years 0-2 Years Learners Industry Background Non IT/Business 19.1% Roles 66.4% Other IT/ 14.5% Tech Roles Software Developers/Engineers --- --- 19 BATCH PROFILE Learners Academic Background IITs/ NITs/IIITs/BITS Others 10.1% 89.9% Join the versatile community of aspirational working professionals who are all set to #CreateImpact in the real world. Enrol Now --- --- 20 BATCH PROFILE Average Salary Post Scaler viz a viz years of experience INR 57.2 LPA 2-6 years INR 31.9 LPA 0-2 years 6-10 years 10+ years INR 20.1 LPA INR 16.6 LPA --- --- 21 MEET OUR INSTRUCTORS Learn from the Experts OUR EXPERT TROOPERS WILL GO THE EXTRA MILE WITH YOU! Anshuman Singh Co-Founder, , Ex- Anshuman Singh is the Co-Founder of Scaler and a two-time ACM ICPC world finalist. He was one of the founding team members of Facebook Messenger and worked directly with Mark Zuckerberg on product development. Satya Sai Ex-SDE, Ex-Amazon SDE, Satya Sai is a learner by choice and a teacher by heart, combining the two he has mentored over 500+ students on DSA at renowned institutions like VNR-VJIET, Vardhaman, and CMREC. Now, Satya is one of Scalers top-rated instructors who also won the Turning Cup in 2019. Naman Bhalla Ex- Ex-Googler, Naman Bhalla is Scalers finest instructor. He secured global rank 135 at Googles Kickstart Round D, and 37th rank at ACM ICPC Kanpur Regionals, 2019-20. Naman is proficient in Spring, React, Redis, Kafka, and Flask. Currently, he is heading and building Scaler Topics from scratch. --- --- 22 MEET OUR INSTRUCTORS Learn from the Experts Kshitij Mishra Ex-Software Engineer, Kshitij Mishra is an ex-Software Engineer II at Snapdeal and an ex-Lead Software Engineer at InterviewBit. He pursued his Bachelors in Computer Science & Engineering from IIIT Hyderabad and is currently heading the team of Utkarsh Gupta Ex- , Germany An ex-Googler in Germany, Utkarsh is a master at Codeforces and a 6-star coder at CodeChef. He secured AIR 1 in Google Hash Code 2019. Skilled in core Java, C, C++, Object Oriented Programming, Boolean Algebra, and Mathematical Analysis. At present, Utkarsh is a Team Manager and Instructor at InterviewBit/Scaler. Arnav Gupta Ex-Engineering Head, Former Engineering Head of Zomato, Arnav Gupta is the Co-Founder of Coding Blocks and has 10+ years of Android experience under his belt. He has been a dedicated programming contributor to Android OS. Currently, Arnav is an Instructor and Engineer at Scaler. --- --- 23 MEET OUR MENTORS Navigate your career with 1:1 Mentorship Get clarity on your career path and tackle every stage of your upskilling journey with 1:1 guidance. Our mentors will go all the way to help you with your queries interview insights, placement assistance, and make sure you forge ahead with the right guidance. Goutham Harsha, Goutham is currently a Tech Lead at Google, 4.9/5 Switzerland. He has worked at Apple as a senior SWE RATING and Microsoft as SDE-II. He has worked on several distributed systems including Azure Compute, Apple Music, and Google Borg. Udit Agarwal, Udit is a Backend expert, who has worked with tech giants like Microsoft, Amazon, Adobe, and Directi. An 4.9/5 RATING IIIT Allahabad alumnus, he has worked and built Chat applications, e-commerce sites, cloud file systems, streaming systems, etc. Divya Karia, Divya has delivered multiple e2e projects, including 4.8/5 the launch and ideation of Google Play and Google RATING Ads. She has mentored several freshers and her expertise lies in backend development, Databases, Java, C++, Python, C#, AWS, Azure, Hadoop, etc. Vinod Kumar, Vinod has worked at tech giants like Microsoft, and Amazon, currently, he is working as a backend 4.8/5 Software Engineer II at Facebook, London. He is RATING proficient in C#, Java, NodeJS, cloud computing, distributed systems, data structures and advanced algorithms. --- --- 24 SCALER SUPPORT Amp up your Career With the right career support, you can make a real-world impact. Fasten your seatbelts, were going to accelerate your career. Practice mock interviews with Industry Ninjas Connect & Access job collaborate opportunities with 20K+ from 600+ Scaler alumni partner employers Polish your resume, LinkedIn Profile & get the needed placement assistance --- --- 25 SCALER SUPPORT Top Tech Companies Cherish Our Alumni working at: --- --- 26 HOW TO ENROL? Unlock Your Gateway to Tech Giants Invest in Scaler Academy Our payment plans include multiple easy financing options (No Cost EMIs, Scholarships) that make Scaler accessible to everyone. We offer a 2 weeks trial period and a money-back guarantee if you choose to drop out of the course. Enrollment Process: Kickstart your journey Hassle-Free Quick Batch Registration Evaluation Allotment Make a new account Take a 30 min MCQ Sign in to the on test (aptitude & basic recommended batch or login using your coding questions) to with our flexible social/InterviewBit find the ideal batch payment options account for you and start upskilling Enrol Now --- --- 27 YOUR CERTIFICATES Showcase your skills on your resume From Scaler For learners advancing their capabilities with the IIT-Roorkee program Add-on Certificate from IIT-Roorkee --- --- # C R E A T E I M P A C T THANK YOU Need more insights? Speak with our Career Counsellor for a detailed overview of Scaler Academy Schedule a Call WWW.SCALER.COM --- OCR from --- Data Science Course with SCALER @) | Specialisation in Al BUILD CAPABILITIES USING Al & ML Get One Step Closer To Your Goal --- OCR from --- Al is Transforming The Tech World Artificial Intelligence is the cornerstone of the data-driven revolution, redefining the decision-making processes of organisations. Professionals with a strong foundation in DSML are in greater demand than ever. 66% Leaders Would not hire professionals who lack expertise in Al (Source: Microsoft) 71% Employers Prefer hiring Al-skilled professionals over experienced ones (Source: Microsoft) --- OCR from --- Why Learn AI with Scaler? We offer a comprehensive, industry-vetted curriculum to make you proficient in Al-powered data analysis and problem-solving. From mastering tools like Tableau to developing portfolio projects, you'll gain expertise that prepares you for leadership roles. Transform Data into Impact With Al, you'll become a DSML professional with skills to: Build predictive Design intelligent models that transform systems to optimise raw data into insights business operations Innovate solutions for complex problems using ML techniques --- OCR from --- Index Learn Through Experiences Curriculum Outline Evolve With the Industry Apply Your Skills to Business Problems Training You to Reach the Top Curriculum Advisors Shape Your Own Journey Find Your Starting Point Mentors to Guide You Choose How High You'll Go Be Part of Our Community Others on the Same Path Career Transition of Our Learners Why Scaler is Right for You About Scaler Ecosystem Designed for Learning Placement Outcomes & Roles Scaler Placement Assistance Hear From Our Learners 06 07 08 09 12 4 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 --- OCR from --- Course Summary Program at a Glance Si Program Name Data Science with Specialisation in Al ES Eligibility Freshers, tech and non-tech professionals Certifications NSDC Certified aa) Instructors Experts from top companies The Learning Experience ce 1:1 Industry P Practical Sr. ML Engineer He has over 5 years of experience in Data Science, Data Analytics, Al/ML, Statistics, Deployment and mentoring. Sajjad Manal Hill Applied Scientist | | | He uses his knowledge of Machine Learning to solve business problems at Microsoft and actively works on independent projects as well. --- OCR from --- 18 Choose How High You'll Go At various points in the program, you'll be eligible to apply for roles depending on the curriculum blocks you complete.  Complete Block Optional-Natural Language Processing Opportunities Complete Block NLP Engineer 9 Chatbot Developer Data Scientist (NLP) ML Engineer (NLP) Optional-Computer Vision Opportunities  Complete Block Computer Vision Eng. Machine Learning Robotics Engineer Deep Learning Eng. Opportunities Research Scientist ML Engineer  Complete Block ML Scientist Datel nalysisls Data Scientist Visualisation Al Engineer Cppertunities Al Researcher Data Analyst BI Analyst Predictive Modeler Domain Analyst Quantitative Analyst Research Analyst Risk Analyst Please note that completing a block includes clearing the required evaluation for each module. --- OCR from --- gq) -- 9 Be Part of Our Community The best part of any learning ecosystem is your peer group and alumni, who can provide insights, guidance and advice even after you graduate from Scaler. Be part of a network of Learn collaboratively with 20k+ learners and your peers in a dynamic alumni learning environment Access a network of Join Scaler City Clubs for alumni for insights and offline events, workshops, mentorship opportunities and networking __ A= --- OCR from --- eg  20 Others on the Same Path 28% O-1 years 23% 4-7 years Our learners have a wide range of work experience / \G N 4 \ 14% 7+ years Va 10% non-it And come Engmeema from different 42% backgrounds 8% Data IT Engineerin Science g g --- OCR from --- a) 21 Career Transition of Our Learners Data Scientist Lead Data Scientist Member of Technical Staff ML Engineer Business Intelligence Analyst ALGONOMY Systems Engineer Data Scientist Data Scientist Lead Data Scientist inference Sr. Analyst Data Scientist Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background and market conditions. Assessed by 52K --- OCR from --- 22 Why Scaler is Right for You @ About Scaler @ Ecosystem Designed for Learning @ Placement Outcomes & Roles @ Scaler Placement Assistance @ Hear From Our Learners --- OCR from --- 23 About Scaler Transforming Careers Since 2019 v (i ae aa) | 15k+ satisfied Top 1% industry 89.5% success learners instructors rate Programs We Offer > Online > Offline Academy (Software Development) Scaler School of Technology Data Science Scaler School of Business DevOps Neovarsity (Masters Degree) Backed by the Best in the Industry @ Kunal Shah @ Deepinder Goel @ Binny Bansal Founder, [G) CRED Co-founder, FEZzua Co-Founder, Flipkart @ Rajan Anandan @ Vijay Shekhar Sharma MD, peak xv MD, Payfii) --- OCR from --- a) Ecosystem Designed for Learning Access to Class Recordings for up to 6 months after course completion Reset Course Option to help you restart as and when you need it Pause & Resume from the nearest milestone and get credit back after resuming the course Al-enabled Resume Builder to help you make it through resume screenings at top companies kMathCo SseGe  G vervact if ZS MORNINGSTAR Infosys REGENERON = OO Mitel) Bare --- OCR from --- a) 27 Hear From Our Learners Avijit Swain @ It just feels like yesterday that | joined Scaler's Data Science and Machine Learning Program. | do not even remember how the past few months just flew by. The last 1 year at Scaler has literally altered the course of my life. From being completely directionless and hopeless to regaining my confidence, this has been an unbelievable turnaround for me. Sunshodan Makkar (@) amber I'd like to thank the Scaler team-great instructors like Mohit Uniyal and Scaler's teaching assistants made my transition into the DSML field very smooth. While Data Analytics wasn't my initial area of interest, attending classes and immersing myself in learning allowed me to discover a genuine interest and passion for it. Mayank Khandelwal The best way to learn something is by diving straight into the deep end and broadening your horizons. For that, | would like to specifically thank Srikanth Varma Chekuri. Having an in-depth understanding of the various projects we can targetas a fresher or an experienced professional - was super exciting to learn about. ar More --- OCR from --- SCALER @ Ready to Start Your Data Science Journey? Apply Now --- OCR from --- ==| SCALER PGP-MT SCHOOLF (PGP in Mgmt BUSINESS and Tech) Indias only B-School Designed by Leaders Who Have Run Large Scale Businesses --- OCR from --- Directors Desk Anshuman Singh Co-founder, Scaler ($700 Million Company) Ex-Tech Lead, Facebook Messenger Set up Facebook's London Office India's business landscape is experiencing a seismic shift. Technological advancements & integrations, initiatives like 'Make in India' and increased startup funding have transformed how Indians approach business. Today technology is no longer an afterthought, it is a critical element for the survival of a business. However, traditional B-schools need to prepare graduates to meet the challenges of the modern business world. Theres a substantial gap between what conventional business programs teach and the skills needed to thrive in this tech-powered business landscape. A 2020 India Skill Report shows that only 46.59% of students have enough professional skills to get hired. --- OCR from --- =e SCALER SCHOOL There is a need for a Business program that integrates management and technology, narrows the skill gap, and aims to align educational outcomes with the demands of today's workplace. After months of research and gauging the current industry needs, we've designed a program that delivers just that. Through Scaler School of Business, we are launching a one-of-a-kind PG Program in Management & Technology, 18 months long, full-time, and on campus. The PG Program in Mgmt and Tech places a premium on practical and experiential learning, through company-sourced projects, immersive case studies, and direct engagement with industry leaders. Our students will gain invaluable experience that transcends the confines of the classroom, leaving no stone unturned and no business fundamentals unlearned. Clubbed with our comprehensive, opt-in residential services, this program is the lever that you need to pull to become a sought-after leader! At Scaler, we're not creating followers; we're nurturing leaders who will shape the future of business. Welcome to the era of innovation and new-age business education! bese Anshuman Singh --- OCR from --- =e| SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS The Need for an Industry-focused B-school in Today's India The world of business is revolutionising faster than before. The present times have signalled a clear shift powered by tech advancements like Al, ML, Blockchain and more. Hence, the future of work demands a tech-savvy workforce. A McKinsey report estimates that 375M* global workers will need to adapt to Al and automation by 2030. India will face an even steeper challenge based on how organisations adapt and adopt the change. Early business education began with foundational subjects like maths and economics to equip students with core business understanding. Over time, with the industry's growing needs, it expanded to functions like marketing, finance, and operations. Today, however, the focus has shifted towards industry-specific skills and integrating technology into business strategy. 2024 demands an educational approach that is practical-first, tech elevated and goes beyond the traditional. Moreover, a survey by GMAC emphasises how soft skills like the ability to adapt to technological shifts and strategic thinking will be valued more over traditional business knowledge. With 10M new jobs* projected by 2027 in India, we aim to equip future leaders with the skills to thrive in this digital era. Our PG Program in Mgmt. & Tech focuses on empowering students through practical skills & equipping them with tech. --- OCR from --- =e| SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS Welcome to Scaler School of Business Our PG Program in Management and Technology emphasises hands-on learning along with traditional lectures. Delivered by industry leaders with decades of experience in building & scaling businesses from ground zero, this program truly mirrors the reality of new-age companies. From industry-preferred skills to real-world metrics, each aspect of the program echoes the sound of modernisation. ( \\ Duration v 18-month PG Program with 3-months compulsory internship Campus Location Opt-in residential situated in the heart of Indias Silicon Valley-Bengaluru ) Eligibility Bachelors degree with a minimum of 1 year of work experience (Freshers are welcome to apply as well) Selective c v Admissions Looking for the top 2% of exceptional candidates --- OCR from --- =e| SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS Expertise that Delivers: Scalers Proven Track Record Our Alumni Work at* Google amazon VN adobe P PayPal #8 Microsoft @ TARGET ~900 CR amazon 3700+ =1.7 CR SI Salary created Hired more Scaler Learners Highest salary, for Scaler graduates than all placed at 21.6 LPA graduates in the IITs combined top tech average salary the last 4 yrs in 2022 companies of learners *Verified by kp) the data is explicitly from Scalers working professionals course Supported & Mentored By Indias Top Business Leaders Binny Bansal Deepinder Goyal Apurva Dalal Co-Founder, Flipkart [B Co-Founder,zomato Engineering Lead Ex-ewitter 9 Kunal Shah Co-Founder, [] CRED CEO, 31 Pine Labs Co-Founder, 32? RIPPLING Founder, Pay! Ii Vijay Shekhar Amrish Rau Prasanna Sankar Sharma and 100+ industry leaders --- OCR from --- Built on 4 Pillars of Doing Business in this Decade: Project Evaluation by Industry Leaders Get practical feedback from experts who have built business empires from scratch Be 10x Better With Al & Tech Learn Al tools and tech from the sharpest minds at Scaler to manage your work like a pro Solidify Your Professional Profile Strengthen your resume through company-sourced projects & a 3-month internship A Build Your MVP with Innovation Lab Leverage tech resources at Scalers Tech Innovation Lab to give wings to your ideas --- OCR from --- =e| SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS A Curriculum that Mirrors Complexities of Todays Businesses Our curriculum is designed by seasoned business veterans who have run large-scale businesses. From experiential learning that focuses on immersive projects sourced directly from Fortune 500 companies to merging theoretical rigour with practical application, our modules prepare students to be workplace-ready. Phase 1 Phase 2 Solidify your base by learning Acquire functional, core business principles like industry-preferred skills finance, accounting, business through real-world projects & strategy and more. choose your specialisation(s) from 4 main verticals. Phase 3 Phase 4 Apply your new learning to Learn strategies and models the 3-month mandatory for driving digital innovation in internship that will further sectors like HeathTech, SaaS strengthen your core. and GenAl frontiers. --- OCR from --- =e| SCALER SCHOOL Phase 1 Core Business Fundamentals | 6 Months Trimester Learning Execution Financial Accounting Business Performance . . Optimisation Marketing Strategies Trimester 1 Core Business Managerial Economics Skills Sales Strategies Business Strategy Global Economics Hackathon: Business Statistics Strategy Consulting Trimester 2 Marketing Decision Making Seine Financial Modelling Managerial Accounting Operations Management Trimester 3 Venture Capital, PE, and Strategic Investment Core Business Angel Investing Analysis Skill . ae . _ Organisational Behavior Business Strategy Frameworks Marketing Marketing in the Digital Age New Product Launch Campaign Operations Advanced Operations Process Improvement Management Initiative --- OCR from --- =e| SCALER SCHOOL Trimester Learning Execution Corporate Finance Financial Health Finance . oo, Assessment and Financial Risk Management Action Plan Strategy Strategies for the Competitive Landscape Digital Economy Analysis Phase 2 Functional Specialisation | 6 Months Trimester Learning Execution Supply Chain Management The Big Brand Story: Data-Driven Decision Making A Data-Driven Approach Trimester 4  . Core Business Building & Sustaining Brand Skills Equity Product Management Basics Personal Finance & Investment Portfolio Optimisation . . Challenge . Options & Futures Trading Finance Mergers & Acquisition Going Public & Going Private --- OCR from --- SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS Trimester Finance Operations Strategy Marketing Learning Financial Markets Real Estate Finance International Finance Managing Services in the Digital World Operating a Platform Product Operating a Logistics Product Sustainable Operations Project Management Quality Mgmt. & Lean Operations Corporate Development Corporate Governance Change Management Global Strategic Management Pricing Strategies Corporate Restructuring and Transformation Strategic Innovation Mangement Global Marketing Strategies Advanced Market Analysis Digital & Social Media Strategies E-commerce Operations Transformation Strategy Bootcamp - Emerging Tech Market Basket Analysis for Retail Chain --- OCR from --- =e| SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS Trimester Marketing Interview Readiness Trimester 5 Industry Immersion Learning Rural Market Penetration B2B Marketing Consumer Insights & Trends Interview Readiness for Domain-specific Roles Internships Phase Execution Interview Mastery Bootcamp 3-month Mandatory Internship Trimester 6 Industry Specialisations User Funnels - New/Retained Applications of GenAl in Business HealthTech FinTech EdTech SaaS GenAl Frontiers Blockchain & Web3 Build an Al Tool from Scratch --- OCR from --- SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS Designed by Industry Pioneers with Unparalleled Expertise Gain real-world knowledge directly from business experts, who have been there and done that. Bhavik Rathod President, Scaler School Ex-CEO, Uber He made Uber rule the roads of India and converted the business into a billion-dollar revenue powerhouse through his strategic insights and leadership qualities. Manish Pansari Operations Leader, Scaler Ex-CXO & Head of Ops, A myntra Manish transformed Myntra into a $400 million e-commerce giant, bringing deep knowledge of growth strategies and customer engagement. Vidit Jain Strategy Leader, Scaler Ex-Engagement Leader, McKinsey&Company Having led teams at McKinsey and Mobile Premier League (MPL), Vidits analytical approach redefines strategic excellence. Their combined knowledge of scaling, optimising, and managing some of India's most successful businesses ensures the curriculum is relevant and dynamic. --- OCR from --- ==] SCALER P= 1| SCHOOL BUSINESS Real-world Projects. Real-world Feedback. Student assignments will undergo critical evaluation by seasoned experts and CXOs, guaranteeing that feedback is rooted in real-world applicability. Product Launch GTM Ideate, build and pitch detailed, go-to-market plans to learn how to launch new products in the market and drive demand. 3 Product Management Work on research-backed solutions for challenges like enhancing UI for mobile apps, refining SaaS products and building product roadmaps for integrating Al. 2 Business Strategy Tackle a diverse range of initiatives, including streamlining supply chains, diversifying product portfolios and improving customer engagement cycles. 4 Venture Capital From presenting innovative FinTech solutions to outlining a B2B SaaS platform's growth strategy, students will propose scalable app solutions to venture capitalists. Such i:1 engagement with CXOs, COOs and seasoned professionals refines students strategic thinking abilities and establishes whether their learnings fit todays needs. --- OCR from --- =e| SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS Sneak Peek into Scalers Tech Innovation Lab The innovation lab is a dynamic, collaborative space where students from Scaler School of Technology and Scaler School of Business come together to build products that merge practical business models with technological ingenuity. Here, aspiring engineers and business leaders-in-the-making, join hands to create Minimum Viable Products (MVPs), refine prototypes, and conduct user testing. This unique environment enables students to leverage their diverse skills, blending tech with strategic insights to bring need-based products to life. For instance, our Ist-year engineering students worked on VR ideas for Urban Company using VisionPro. The lab now awaits business intervention to elevate its project! --- OCR from --- =e=/ SCALER SCHOOL Put Your Business Theories to the Lab Test Robotics Lab Explore automation, mechanics, and control systems, fostering innovation and real-world problem-solving. Drone Lab From designing and building drones to programming flight paths the drone lab is a hub for exploring your ideas. Macintosh Lab Get access to high-end Apple computers and software, enabling creative projects across verticals in a state-of-the-art environment. Networking Lab Delve into networking infrastructure and protocols to gain practical skills in preparing for challenges in IT and cybersecurity. Al & ML Lab Explore artificial intelligence and machine learning concepts through real-world projects, gaining experience in data modelling, algorithm development, and more. Don't just be a textbook learner, become a hands-on experimenter in the best way possible! --- OCR from --- SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS Meet Our Instructors and Guest Faculty Acquire real-world knowledge and develop industry-preferred skills from the industrys best business minds. They'll be your teaching guides and mentor you to be future-ready. Anshuman Singh Rahul Karthikeyan Puneet Gupta Built Facebook's London office CMO, Scaler; Ex-Head= Marketing, Principal, BCG GroupM & upGrad - Manish Sapra Abhimanyu Saxena Ex Associate Partner, Team lead at Fab.com's McKinsey & Co. global offices --- OCR from --- Placement Assistance at Scaler School of Business 900+ hiring partners across industry domains giving graduates a power boost to begin their careers. Google amazon Adobe TM Microsoft @ TARGET --- OCR from --- =e| SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS  Our curriculum focuses on interview preparation from the root level, where students receive tailored mentoring to excel in domain-specific interviews.  Case study competitions like devising a comprehensive market entry strategy for an electric vehicle manufacturer or optimising the supply chain for a global retail chain play an important role.  Our program includes a mandatory 3-month internship to build profiles ready to hit the market. Google Flipkart Qualcomm  toppr SAMSUNG amazon ae) oldman achs NUTAND) Extraordinary Achievements Scholarship Honouring extraordinary achievements in diverse areas including academics Eligibility e Academic Performance: Top rank in any MBA entrance tests or merit rank at the UG level  Competitions: Gold medal or equivalent in business case competitions, Olympiads, etc. e Athletic Achievements: Accomplishments in sports at national/international level Industry Leaders Scholarship Valuing professionals with impactful work and leadership ility e Recognised accomplishments in the field of work with an established company  Consultant at tier 1/2 consulting firms ( >) Women in Q Leadership Scholarship Empowering women to achieve leadership roles in business Eligibility e Proven leadership and strong professional achievements e Leadership position in organisations/college clubs XY --- OCR from --- =e=/ SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS In the Spotlight: Breaking News and Industry Recognition Scaler diversifies its educational offering; launches Scaler School of Business >=| SCALER SCHOOLS BUSINESS Sealer, a leading education provider in india, has launched Sealer School of Business (SSB) today with its fulltime on-campus Postgraduate Program in Management and Technology in the heart of Bengaluru, the Silicon Valley of india. This is India first business school built by industry leaders for future industry leaders, offering a meticulously crafted curriculum that mirrors the realities of modern tech and innovation-driven businesses. As with engineering education in the country, traditional MBA programs are also typically built and taught by academic scholars renowned for their theoretical expertise in business concepts and principles. According to the india Skill Report 2020, having an MBA degree is no longer the key to landing jobs in india, with only 46.59 per cent of students having enough skills to be hired. Several institutions attempt to teach these practical skills through case studies. Still, more often than not, SatulL EARNING! oo Scaler Expands Its Educational Portfolio, Introduces Scaler School of Business sp aRAARNING Near OOOH >e=| SCALER SCHOOL? BUSINESS Scaler's educational startup has Inaugurated its Scaler School of Business (SSB) by launching an on-campus Postgraduate Programme in Management and Technology in Bengaluru. The India Skil Report 2020 suggests that merely possessing an MBA degree does not guarantee job readiness, noting that only 46.59% of graduates are sufficiently skiled for employment. In response, SSB's postgraduate program is specifically tailored to address the disconnect between conventional business education ang the evolving needs of the industry, according to @ statement from the company. Scaler Diversifies Its Educational Offering, Launches Scaler School Of Busine: Scaler, an education start-up, has launched Scaler School of Business ($$B) with its full-time on-campus Postgraduate Programme in Management and Technology in Bengaluru. According to the India Skill Report 2020, having an MBA degree is no longer the key to landing jobs in India, with only 46.59 per cent of students having enough skills to be hired. Several institutions attempt to teach these practical skills through case studies. The postgraduate programme curated by Scaler School of Business has been designed to bridge this significant gap between traditional business education and the industry's SS Related Stories Bengalur A Wealth of Moir Statman's St ell Beng, NCLT Grants Byju's One Wack To Settle Rs S ror0 Paymont n YOURSTORY Scaler launches Scaler School of Business Education provider Sealero has announced the launch of Scaler School of Business (SSB) with its full-time on-campus Postgraduate Program in Management and Technology in the heart of Bengaluru $SB's postgraduate program integrates elements like a three-month internship, case studies, industry-driven evaluations, and immersive projects sourced directly from leading companies. Students will have access to e dedicated spaceScaler Innovation Labwhere they will work on projects under Scaler's leadership team and CXOs of partner organisations. They will be able to collaborate with computer science engineers from Scaler School of Technology to build prototypes or minimal viable products We are dedicated to shaping the future of talent with an industry-focused approach. We want to empower working professionals and students alike to build the right skillsets and knowledge, leading to a wider impact in the real world, We strongly believe that working professionals today and in the future need both business and technology acumen. Scaler School of Business is a vital step in that direction, said Abhimanyu Saxena, Co-Founder of Scaler. --- OCR from --- =e| SCALER SCHOOL BUSINESS Take the first step towards becoming a part of the top 1% of the business leaders in the country! Apply Now Visit: scaler.com/school-of-business --- OCR from --- ENHANCE YOUR TECH CAREER JOURNEY WITH AI Software Development Course with Specialisation in Al SCALER --- OCR from --- ABOUT SCALER Scaler (by InterviewBit) is an outcome-focused leading ed-tech platform for tech enthusiasts. We are a transformative tech school devoted to creating a growth ecosystem to assist software professionals in unlocking talent & opportunities at every stage of their career. We are empowering learners with cutting-edge Al tools and frameworks, ensuring that our learners are both industry-ready and future-ready. Our curriculum integrates Al-driven approaches to problem-solving, making Scaler graduates stand out in the age of Artificial Intelligence. --- OCR from --- index @ 04 @ 05 @ 06 @ 07 @ 08 @ 09 @ 13 @ 14 Tech Landscape Build Al Skills Academy Overview Scaler Advantage Who is this for? Curriculum Outline Level Up With IIT-Roorkee IIT-Roorkee Campus Immersion @ 15 @ 18 @ 19 @ 21 @ 24 @ 26 @ 27 Success Stories Batch Profile Meet our Instructors Meet our Mentors Scaler Support How to Enrol? Your Certificates --- OCR from --- TECH ey) LANDSCAPE The Industry Needs SDEs with AI Skills Al is revolutionising the tech industry, making it vital for SDEs to embrace this transformative technology. Whether you're building intelligent applications or optimising workflows, Al can be the edge that propels you to the forefront of innovation. 97 Million New Jobs 66% of Leaders Will be created by Al by 2025, outpacing other sectors (Source: World Economic Forum) 71% of Employers Prefer professionals with Al skills to experienced ones without (Source: Microsoft) Say they would not hire professionals who lack expertise in Al (Source: Microsoft) 80% Professionals Working in tech will be expected to gain Al skills by 2027 (Source: Gartner) --- OCR from --- BUILD AI SKILLS Choose Scaler to Learn Al Scaler Academy bridges the gap between software development and Al expertise. With a structured curriculum, live classes by industry experts, and hands-on projects, you'll master Al tools and techniques alongside core development skills. ENHANCE SDE SKILLS WITH Al As a software developer, integrating Al into your skillset empowers you to: Automate complex tasks and improve efficiency Develop intelligent systems that learn and adapt Create innovative UX with Al-driven personalisation --- OCR from --- ACADEMY eS) OVERVIEW A run-down of Scaler Academy Many aspiring engineers (like YOU!) face challenges due to outdated teaching methods and content. We have integrated Al-driven modules to bridge this gap and equip learners with skills that will make them future-ready. OLD STRATEGIES WONT OPEN NEW DOORS Unlock a brighter tech future with Al-powered insights and mentorship from MAANG veterans! Our curriculum is now infused with Artificial Intelligence, preparing you to tackle the toughest challenges in the tech world. With Al at the core of our training, you'll not only stay relevant but lead innovation. Together, we'll help you #Createlmpact and accelerate your journey. Here's what you can expect as you go about exploring Scaler Academy's roadma p to success: Structured, flexible, industry-vetted curriculum Live classes by experts who have been there, done that Get hands-on experience with live projects Placement support & career guidance Regular 1:1 mentorship 9 - 11 months of dedicated learning Al-powered mock interviews & teaching assistance SCALER 9 ee --- OCR from --- SCALER@ @ ADVANTAGE Fastest route to your dream career As atechnophile, you are enthusiastically searching for clues that will help you scale both professionally and academically. Scaler Academy will carefully weave your skills & enrich your learning experience. @ Track your progress  Immediate evaluation through live report cards to monitor your progress  600+ partner employers  Aspirational community of & placement assistance 20K+ Scaler learners & alumni  Thorough learning  Hyper-personalised through industry projects experience  Flexible learning hours @ Resolve doubts with expert teaching assistants Attend a Free Class  SCALER @) --- OCR from --- WHOIS THIS FOR? Eligibility & Fit Check Before you begin your upskilling journey, your roots must be in: +) Engineering/ IT/Maths Background (OR) 7) Developing role (Service-based company) (OR) 7) Engineering role (Product-based company)  Once you pass the eligibility criteria, lets find you a route: Our Program ensures that you get equipped with the confidence and skills required to overcome the most formidable hurdles a techie may encounter in their journey ahead. Take the Scaler Entrance Test: 16 MCQs and see where you fit. MR Take it from the Top: Hop on the Midway: Zoom to the Core: BEGINNER BATCH INTERMEDIATE BATCH ADVANCED BATCH 10.5 MONTHS 12 MONTHS 10 MONTHS Journey Journey Journey For learners with little For learners with basic For learners with notable or no coding experience coding experience coding experience SCALER a) --- OCR from --- CURRICULUM ey) OUTLINE The Blueprint to Success Our expert-led curriculum will prepare you for the toughest challenges that you may face in your journey to becoming a skilled programmer. 10.5 Months Core Outline Programming Language Fundamentals | Duration: 1.5 Months Data Structures and Algorithms | Duration: 4.5 Months SQL | Duration: 0.5 Month Specialisations* Frontend Engineering | Duration: 3 Months Backend Engineering | Duration: 3 Months System Design Essentials | Duration: 1 Month Electives** (Optional) High-Level Design | Duration: 1.5 Months Data Engineering | Duration: 2 months DSA for Competitive Programming | Duration: 1 month Product Management for Engineers | Duration: 1 month Gen Al for Software Engineers | Duration: 2 month * Only 1 Specialisation is allowed per learner. Recorded lectures for the other can be availed via Student Dashboard. At Least 1 Specialisation is mandatory for successful completion of the course. ** A learner can do as many electives as they want, but only after completion of Core Curriculum. SCALER FF oe --- OCR from --- CURRICULUM  OUTLINE The Blueprint to Success 12 Months Core Outline Introduction to Problem Solving | Duration: 2 Months Data Structures and Algorithms | Duration: 4 Months Advance Language Concepts* | Duration: 1 Week Computer Science Fundamentals | Duration: 1 Month Low-Level Design| Duration: 1.5 Months High-Level Design] Duration : 1.5 Months Specialisations** Fullstack Engineering (Backend and Frontend) | Duration: 2 Months Data Engineering | Duration: 2 Months Electives*** (Optional) DSA for Competitive Programming | Duration: 1 Month Product Management for Engineers | Duration: 1 Month Gen Al for Software Engineers | Duration: 2 Month *To be conducted in an inverted classroom model (recorded lectures alongwith Live doubt resolution sessions) ** Only 1 Specialisation is allowed per learner. Recorded lectures for the other can be availed via Student Dashboard. At Least 1 Specialisation is mandatory for successful completion of the course. *** A learner can do as many electives as they want, but only after completion of Core Curriculum. SCALER FF oe --- OCR from --- CURRICULUM OUTLINE The Blueprint to Success 10 Months Core Outline Data Structures and Algorithms | Duration: 4 Months Advance Language Concepts* | Duration: 1 Week Computer Science Fundamentals | Duration: 1 Month Low-Level Design| Duration: 1.5 Months High-Level Design] Duration : 1.5 Months Specialisation** Fullstack Engineering (Backend and Frontend) | Duration: 2 Months Data Engineering | Duration: 2 Months Electives*** (Optional) DSA for Competitive Programming | Duration: 1 Month Product Management for Engineers | Duration: 1 Month Gen Al for Software Engineers | Duration: 2 Month *To be conducted in an inverted classroom model (recorded lectures alongwith Live doubt resolution sessions) * Only 1 Specialisation is allowed per learner. Recorded lectures for the other can be availed via Student Dashboard. At Least 1 Specialisation is mandatory for successful completion of the course. *** A learner can do as many electives as they want, but only after completion of Core Curriculum. SCALER FF ee --- OCR from --- Want to take a deeper dive into our curriculum? SCALER 3) --- OCR from --- LEVEL UP WITH IIT-ROORKEE Advanced Al Engineering Program From Indias Oldest Technical Institute Rank 8 on National Institutional g Rank 6 on National Institutional A@ Ranking Framework, Overall - A@ Ranking Framework, Engineering - 2023 2024 With alumni in top roles at companies like amazon == Microsoft goaan 7\ Adobe r [Program Hishiigrts)  Domain-specific Al use  Curriculum designed by cases for practical learning expert IIT faculty  Certificate from one of @ Learn by building Al & ML the top institutes in India applications for different problem statements SCALER @) --- OCR from --- IIT-ROORKEE  CAMPUS IMMERSION Spend 2 Days on Campus Y IIT-Roorkee resources & facilities at your 4 >) i Access to research labs with cutting-edge tech  Food & Fireside chat accommodation with industry included experts YOUR INSTRUCTOR FROM IIT-ROORKEE Pravendra Singh Assistant Professor, Ph.D. in CSE from IIT Kanpur 19 articles published in renowned journals 10+ awards & grants from IITs, Google, Microsoft, etc To know more [Reif "4s (27-9) SCALER @) --- OCR from --- SCALER SUCCESS STORIES Trusted to Deliver Excellence Our learners have experienced a noticeable leap in their careers post joining Scaler Academy. From guiding-mentoring to providing constructive feedback(s), we at Scaler leave no stone unturned ; , AVERAGE when it comes to our learners future. HIKE FOR SCALER LEARNERS PROMOTION RATE (ONE YEAR POST SCALER) AVERAGE CTC FOR SCALER LEARNERS SUCCESS STORIES OF SCALER LEARNERS HIGHEST PACKAGE OFFERED TO SCALER LEARNER --- OCR from --- SCALERSUCCESS STORIES Dont take our word for it, take theirs! . I | Wipro + Amazon Anuj Maurya Software Developer The quality of education in the academy boosted my skill level and pushed me. With their industry level experienced mock interviews and incredibly supportive mentors. Receiving an offer letter from Amazon before the completion of the entire course filled me with immense pleasure and boosted my . . Infosys + Samsung Priyanka Kumari Lead Engineer Thanks to Abhimanyu Saxena and Anshuman Singh for creating a wonderful learning platform. | would like to thank Kshitij Mishra, Naman Bhalla & Pragy Agarwal for their wonderful sessions. With their continuous efforts, the outcome is - | got offers from world's leading companies. They made the software development journey so easy. . TCS + Adobe Akash Srivastavalll Software Engineer 2 Instead of being boxed into categories, we were encouraged to learn skills like dynamic programming and have fun. The mentor system is helpful for people like me who face difficulty = finding the right guidance. | felt like | was articulating all my -'a skills and investing my time in the right thing. --- OCR from --- SCALER SUCCESS STORIES Dont take our word for it, take theirs! . L&T + Microsoft Yash Vardhan Raizadall Software Engineer | already had all the tools to find my way in the world, but Scaler and its faculty helped me understand how to use these tools. It also helped me form a framework to go for reputable jobs and curate my profile according to my strengths. Wipro > Walmart Sudhanshu Geral SDE3 The turning point in my career came when | joined Scaler which really helped me get well-versed in almost every aspect of Software Development. Thanks to my mentors Rahul Yadav, Aman Mehta, Varun Garg, Anshuman Singh, Abhimanyu Saxena & Reetika Agrawal for guiding & supporting me enough to be working at the worlds largest company by revenue. . Deloitte + Swi Chandrakanth Nethill SDE  o9y | would like to thank Scaler without which this would not have been possible. Scaler is the best investment | have made towards my career. All credit goes to Abhimanyu Saxena & Anshuman Singh for creating such a wonderful platform with Scaler instructors, intuitive classes, and thorough explanations of concepts. --- OCR from --- BATCH  PROFILE The Scaler Academy Batch Looks Stellar! Upskilling with experts is all well & good, but having a stellar batch makes your upskilling journey 10x more challenging & exciting. Meet your potential batchmates & brace yourself for a brighter skill-driven career. Learners Work Experience 2-8 Years 10+ Years 0-2 Years 5-10 Years Learners Industry Background Non IT/Business Roles Other IT/ Eis Tech Roles Software Developers/Engineers SCALER @) --- OCR from --- BATCH PROFILE Learners Academic Background WE lITs/ NITs/IIITs/BITS M@ Others > 10.1% 89.9% Join the versatile community of aspirational working professionals who are all set to #Createlmpact in the real world. | Enrol Now  SCALER 9 ee --- OCR from --- BATCH PROFILE Average Salary Post Scaler viz a viz years of experience [~ INR 57.2 LPA BN 2-6 years || 0-2 years || 6-10 years || 10+ years INR 31.9 LPA INR 20.1 LPA INR 16.6 LPA SCALER & eS --- OCR from --- MEET OUR INSTRUCTORS Learn from the Experts OUR EXPERT TROOPERS WILL GO THE EXTRA MILE WITH YOU! Anshuman Singh Co-Founder, SCALER @ Ex- facebook Anshuman Singh is the Co-Founder of Scaler and a two-time ACM ICPC world finalist. He was one of the founding team members of Facebook Messenger and worked directly with Mark Zuckerberg on product development. Satya Sai Ex-SDE, amazon 7 Ex-Amazon SDE, Satya Sai is a learner by choice and a teacher by heart, combining the two he has mentored over 500+ students on DSA at renowned institutions like VNR-VIJIET, Vardhaman, and CMREC. Now, Satya is one of Scalers top-rated instructors who also won the Turning Cup in 2019. Naman Bhalla Ex- Google Ex-Googler, Naman Bhalla is Scalers finest instructor. He secured global rank 135 at Google's Kickstart Round D, and 37th rank at ACM ICPC Kanpur Regionals, 2019-20. Naman is proficient in Spring, React, Redis, Kafka, and Flask. Currently, he is heading and building Scaler Topics from scratch. SCALER 9 ee --- OCR from --- MEET OUR INSTRUCTORS Learn from the Experts Kshitij Mishra Ex-Software Engineer, e snapdeal Kshitij Mishra is an ex-Software Engineer Il at Snapdeal and an ex-Lead Software Engineer at InterviewBit. He pursued his Bachelors in Computer Science & Engineering from IIIT Hyderabad and is currently heading the team of Utkarsh Gupta Ex- Google. Germany An ex-Googler in Germany, Utkarsh is a master at Codeforces and a 6-star coder at CodeChef. He secured AIR 1 in Google Hash Code 2019. Skilled in core Java, C, C++, Object Oriented Programming, Boolean Algebra, and Mathematical Analysis. At present, Utkarsh is a Team Manager and Instructor at InterviewBit/Scaler. SSALER Arnav Gupta Ex-Engineering Head, Zomato Former Engineering Head of Zomato, Arnav Gupta is the Co-Founder of Coding Blocks and has 10+ years of Android experience under his belt. He has been a dedicated programming contributor to Android OS. Currently, Arnav is an Instructor and Engineer at Scaler. SCALER @ eI --- OCR from --- MEET OUR MENTORS Navigate your career with 1:1 Mentorship Get clarity on your career path and tackle every stage of your upskilling journey with 1:1 guidance. Our mentors will go all the way to help you with your queries interview insights, placement assistance, and make sure you forge ahead with the right guidance. SCALER @) Goutham Harsha, Google Goutham is currently a Tech Lead at Google, Switzerland. He has worked at Apple as a senior SWE and Microsoft as SDE-I|. He has worked on several distributed systems including Azure Compute, Apple Music, and Google Borg. Udit Agarwal, #8 Microsoft Udit is a Backend expert, who has worked with tech giants like Microsoft, Amazon, Adobe, and Directi. An IIIT Allahabad alumnus, he has worked and built Chat applications, e-commerce sites, cloud file systems, streaming systems, etc. Divya Karia, Google Divya has delivered multiple e2e projects, including the launch and ideation of Google Play and Google Ads. She has mentored several freshers and her expertise lies in backend development, Databases, Java, C++, Python, C#, AWS, Azure, Hadoop, etc. Vinod Kumar, facebook Vinod has worked at tech giants like Microsoft, and Amazon, currently, he is working as a backend Software Engineer I| at Facebook, London. He is proficient in C#, Java, NodeJSs, cloud computing, distributed systems, data structures and advanced algorithms. --- OCR from --- SCALER SUPPORT Amp up your Career With the right career support, you can make a real-world impact. Fasten your seatbelts, were going to accelerate your career. Practice mock interviews with Industry Ninjas WVamxa & AccossjoeY collaborate opportunities with 2O0K+ from 600+ partner Scaler alumni employers Polish your aunt LinkedIn Profile & get the needed placement assistance SCALER a) --- OCR from --- SCALER SUPPORT Top Tech Companies Cherish Our Alumni working at: SCALER @) amazon BE Microsoft pli & Walmart Labs Pay? iii @ Mindtree  gojek ( creD (Nn AJIO Google NETFLIX SAMSUNG  BAY ONEPLUS| DELHIVErY 2UNZO Goldman memes zeta _  PhonePe ANvIDIA. Infos UBER a Walmart >| ee5e5c5ceceooe * PI ITXXYYY LY we o7@e5@e5c5o$ooe  eec5e50e5eeeeee 0 ce5e5eeoeoeeee | COCCCCCeeee . x numbers represented here ate aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of future salary. Salaries.are a function of skills, background, and market conditions.  . .  r odie a r ' ' Assessed by . Pf > :  --- OCR from --- Rajasekhar Khandrika YXPRESS BEES Himanshu Kochar My team and | enjoy interviewing candidates from Scaler because of the skills they possess and also the approach taken by Scaler towards the training process itself. At XpressBees we are looking at engineers who are very strong with Data Structure, Alogrithms, Cloud Computing, and also the concepts of Scaling. What | have observed is that Scaler Engineers have been molded by the training program to meet our requirements exactly. Scaler Academy's training program has been instrumental in bridging our technical skills gap. Their candidates have seamlessly integrated into our team, bringing in a fresh perspective and expertise that has significantly boosted our productivity. We highly recommend Scaler Academy for their top-notch training and quality talent pool. Sindhuja A. onmobile Scaler is by far one of the most able, professional organisations and my experience with them was very much a positive one. The speed and passion with which the team works is commendable while specialising in sourcing and talent-hunting. They also value the customer's relationship and have supported team Onmobile with the most difficult roles with minimal turn-around time. The bottom line is that they make sourcing and talent-hunting easier and help in getting to the right candidates faster. A big shout out to team Scaler and looking forward to many more collaborations. B2K analytics --- OCR from --- SCALER a) --- OCR from --- SCALER # Career Transitio Assessment . REDO! | 202 Assessed by 32. analytics --- OCR from --- Co-founders Note The last two years have been challenging worldwide; and while the overall sentiment might be cautious, we see technology influencing and entering sectors that traditionally have kept away from it. With Data Science, Machine Learning, and Al taking the centre stage, we will see a lot of unique opportunities for those well-versed in the software-tech ecosystem. Our assessment report highlights this very fact. While the usual names of the tech industry continue to recruit, many new-age start-ups and traditional companies have forayed into the space. Technology professionals continue to be in demand and command competitive pay packages and hikes if they have a suitable knowledge base and practical skill set. The results of our assessment report have motivated us to double down on our efforts, and we hope it will help our learners understand that there is a sustainable career path for those who work hard, stay consistent, and prioritise practical learning. J Abhimanyu Anshuman ; Saxena Singh SCALER &) Assessed by 52 analytics --- OCR from --- TC = = " 2K analytics BYTES TO KNOWLEDGE Ref: B2K/Scaler/MUM/RB/01/2024-25 June 4, 2024 To The Director, Scaler, Bellandur, Bengaluru Dear Sir, Re: Assessment of Placement Data for placements of Academy and Data Science courses for Scaler We have assessed the data related to CTC and designations as presented in the appended Placement Summary regarding the placements of learners of the Scaler Academy and Scaler Data Science courses, respectively, of Scaler. In this context, we confirm the following: 1. The assignment was for the assessment and analysis of the placement data of Scaler. 2. For the purpose of the Assessment, we have obtained all the data, information and explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary from Scaler. The analysis and assessment have been carried out based on the same. 3. The primary data sourcing methodology from the learners was either 1:1 telephonic calls by Scaler or from the offer letters (wherever available) verified by B2K Analytics. 4. The appended placement summary has been prepared based on the available data of the 2223 Scaler learners (1978 Scaler Academy and 245 Academy DSML learners). 5. We have, on a random sample basis, verified that the learners in question are indeed bonafide students of the said courses at Scaler. 6. Considering that sharing sensitive information such as Employment, remuneration, etc. are completely at the discretion of individual learners, data availability has been a challenge. This is due to the employment agreements and confidentiality clauses of employers of Scaler Learners which restrict sharing of such information. B2K Analytics Private Limited (Formerly Brickworks Analytics Pvt. Ltd.) 3rd Floor, Raj Alkaa Park, Kalena Agrahara, Bannerghatta Road, Bengaluru - S60 076 P: +91 80 4040 9950 | E:info@b2kanalytics.com | SCALER Assessed by 332. analytics --- OCR from --- 3 ~ analytics BYTES TO KNOWLEDGE 7. The analysis has been done ona sample basis for learners whose placement information was available. The followed methodology for the analysis of the data is an assessment and not an audit. 8. Due to employee and employer agreements and confidentiality terms, B2K Analytics (B2K) has not independently sourced any information or documentation directly from the recruiters or Scaler learners. Best Regards, Ritaban Basu Head  Risk & Analytics B2K Analytics Please note: @ The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. @ Past results do not guarantee future placements. @ Career transition outcomes are a result of building skills. Enrolling in Scaler does not guarantee results. @ The numbers represented herein are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. @ For the analysis, we have considered learners who meet Scalers adherence criteria. Adherence Criteria means learners who have 50% attendance, or have solved 50% of the problems during the duration of the course, or are either placed. SCALER &@) Assessed by | ~ analytics --- OCR from --- 2 @ Index Ol Report Highlights O03 Learner Profile O4 Hike Distribution OS Type of Roles (Placement-wise) O6 Avg. Hike Pre and Post Scaler Data Science O7 Career Transition O08 Learner Testimonials O9 Top Employers 7] Employer Testimonials SCALER Assessed by = --- OCR from --- SCALER ACADEMY O-2Yrs 20% 2-4Yrs 36% 4-7 Yrs 29% 7+ Yrs 15% Report Highlights SCALER DATA SCIENCE LEARNER PROFILE O-1Yr 28% 1-4Yrs 35% 4-7 Yrs 23% 7+ Yrs 14% id have completed a o way a guarantee of DNs. Assessed by 32 --- OCR from --- Placement Statistics MEDIAN CTC Overall | Top 25% Middle 80% ~48 .pn || X25 ipa SCALER ACADEMY F255 LPA MEDIAN CTC Overall Top 25% | Middle 80% SCALER DATA SCIENCE 18 LpaA 55 ipa | X18 Lea SCALER ACADEMY SCALER DATA SCIENCE Pre and Post Scaler Salary Hike =1,50,00,000 %2,03,00,000 21,10,00,000 %2,10,00,000 Max Median 9,00,000 %25,00,000 Median %7,00,000 =18,00,000 Max SCALER ACADEMY Hike in CTC% 150% Median Note -The data set includes learners who have completea period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate nu any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, ba SCALER @) iY analytics --- OCR from --- Learner Profile Years of Experience Our learners come with a wide range of work experience %) O > 00000000008 80000000008 COCCCCOCCCe  800000000008 0000000008 28% GED 23% Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of 70 ) > COCCOCOCOOO > TIX) TTXIXIXIIIXI)) TIX) TTXIXIXXIXI1)) 09) @) m Zz (2) m ED 35% or 14% any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. SCALER @) Assessed by --- OCR from --- Hike Distribution SCALER DATA SCIENCE 0% 200% 400% 600% 800% Analyst Associate Consultant Data Scientist Developer Leadership ML Engineer Manager Mid-senior Dev Others Senior Analyst Sr. Data Scientist Senior Developer Senior ML Engineer EE Sr. Systems Engineer | Systems Engineer Tech Lead UI/UX Design Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. SCALER Assessed by 2. analytics --- OCR from --- SCALER DATA SCIENCE 22% - a Data Scientist Avg. CTC = 20,28,226 18% a Sr. Developer oe Avg. CTC = 24,06,200 Note e Co) S t+ 8 % 2 a ON eS KN O = TAN ot Qs) MOBILE PREMIER LEAGUE it ZS for the batch, and are in no way Ee tec of Aicics Bank ANALYTICS IMPACT GA AMERICAN EXPRESS +k MathCo MORNINGSTAR | COMitel | W ieaticare any future salary. Salaries.are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. scALER a a Assessed by --- OCR from --- Krishna Kumar G GreenPepper Mansil Dua fractabee When GreenPepper sought to hire interns for our Al Collective to conduct Al product research and develop prototypes, the Scaler team excelled in organising the process. They systematically and professionally managed shortlisting, validating learners with the necessary skills and willingness, and executing assignments as part of the selection process. We deeply appreciate the Scaler team's agile and quick problem-solving approach in this collaboration. | wanted to take a moment to express my sincere appreciation for all the support and assistance you have provided to Fractal. Your dedication and expertise have been invaluable in helping us provide good pool of Full-stack Developers. Your team's commitment to excellence and willingness to go above and beyond have not gone unnoticed. Whether it was providing guidance on technical challenges, offering technical trainings to the learners, relevant project exposure, your contributions have made a significant impact on our success. We truly appreciate the partnership we have with Scaler and look forward to continuing to work together in the future. Your professionalism, knowledge, and commitment to customer satisfaction are commendable, and we are grateful for the opportunity to collaborate with such a talented team. analytics --- OCR from --- SCALER a) --- --- What is Scaler Academy? Scaler Academy is an online, transformative upskilling platform for working tech professionals. Our industry-vetted approach towards teaching & training young professionals not only helps them upskill but also #CreateImpact in the real world. We are dedicated to creating an ecosystem that nurtures our learners and helps them unlock their talent, skills, and opportunities at every stage of their careers. Learners enrolled with us are taught, guided, and mentored by industry veterans and experts from leading tech organizations, including Google, Meta, Netflix, Microsoft, Amazon, Hotstar, and Twitter. Founders Founded by IIIT Hyderabad alums Anshuman Singh and Abhimanyu Saxena. Pre-Scaler, Anshuman was working with Facebook in the USA office as a Technical Team Lead, where he helped in building Facebook chats and messages, along with Messenger. He then moved to London to build Facebooks first office outside of the USA, which would work to automate the data ingestion framework. He is a competitive programmer and a two-time ACM ICPC World Finalist. Abhimanyu led a high-velocity team that designed NYC-based retail marketplace Fab.coms entire front end before joining Scaler as a co-founder. As a seasoned entrepreneur, Abhimanyu co-founded his first enterprise, Daksh Home Automation System, in his engineering days. He worked on developing a cost-effective and green AI system to reduce electricity consumption by at least 15% per household. What do we do? Scaler aims to effectively enhance the skills of tech professionals with an industry-vetted approach. We are on a mission to create 1M+ world-class tech professionals by providing them with exceptional mentorship and relevant course material to #CreateImpact. Our teaching army (instructors + mentors) of veterans from Top Tech Giants guides and mentors every learner, according to their individual pace. From preparing for interviews to helping them overcome their career hurdles, the assistance is provided via both 1:1 mentorship and group discussions. Apart from that, the Scaler Community of Learners, Mentors, and Alumni grows stronger by the day as we exchange constructive feedback, guidance, referrals, and other career opportunities. --- --- Our learners spend an average of 3-5 hours daily on the platform learning and upskilling. We provide them access to a comprehensive curriculum, industry-relevant skills, Live Classes, Mock Interviews, and 1:1 Mentorship from over 1000 experts from established companies including Meta, Amazon, Google, Directi and Microsoft. Combining all, we aim to bridge the gap between the Tech Industry and Tech Education. Why do we do? In this dynamic world, where innovation is the catalyst for change, it is high time to revamp the tech learning system. The more we engaged with tech professionals, the more we realised the dire need for an industry-relevant curriculum and upright mentorship that helps aspiring learners upskill and forge ahead in their respective fields. Within a year of starting our operations, we have successfully upskilled 4000+ graduates by assisting them to land their dream jobs in leading tech companies. Over 600+ organisations today trust us with their tech talent recruitment. We have built a reputation for tech excellence with outcomes comparable to leading national and international educational institutions. And we will continue to #CreateImpact. Our Investors We have raised 76.5 million USD in investment to date and are operationally profitable. Marquee investors back us:  Sequoia  Tiger Global  GFC  Rocket Internet --- OCR from --- Advanced Al & SCALER Machine Learning Indias Only Practical Al & ML Program using real-world case studies --- OCR from --- Index Learn Through Experiences What the Industry Needs Curriculum Outline Reach New Heights Live Projects During Classes Case Studies You'll Work On Curriculum Advisors Training You to Reach the Top Shape Your Own Journey Your Starting Point Mentors to Guide You Be Part of Our Community Others on the Same Path Scaler Placement Assistance Why Scaler is Right for You About Scaler Ecosystem Designed for Learning The Scaler Track Record Career Transitions of Our Learners Hear From Our Learners 04 OS 06 O07 08 09 10 1 12 aks 4 15 16 7 18 19 20 21 22 --- OCR from --- 03 Course Summary Program at a Glance Program Name Certifications Mode of Learning Scaler Advanced NSDC Certified 100% Live Learning Al & Machine Learning z 2 & Eligibility Instructors Program Duration Tech professionals Al specialists from 12 months with 2+ years top companies experience lA] Common Outcomes Al Engineer, ML Engineer, MLOps Engineer and Applied Scientist The Learning Experience P 1:1 Industry P Practical On-demand Sr. ML Engineer He has over 5 years of experience in Data Science, Data Analytics, Al/ML, Statistics, Deployment and mentoring. Sajjad Manal Hill Applied Scientist | | | He uses his knowledge of Machine Learning to solve business problems at Microsoft and actively works on independent projects as --- OCR from --- q) 15 Be Part of Our Community The best part of any learning ecosystem is your peer group and alumni, who can provide insights, guidance and advice even after you graduate from Scaler. Be part of a network of Learn collaboratively with 20k+ learners and your peers in a dynamic alumni learning environment Access a network of Join Scaler City Clubs for alumni for insights and offline events, workshops, mentorship opportunities and networking _ AS --- OCR from --- 16 Others on the Same Path Our | h 42% ur learners have 2-4 years a wide range of work experience in tech 27% 5-8 years They also come 68% from different Software tech backgrounds Engineer 12% Data Science Note *This data has been collated from the previous batch of the Scaler Academy and DSML programs. --- OCR from --- Scaler Placement Assistance After mock interviews and resume-building sessions with us, our learners have been successfully placed with top product companies and placement partners. Our 900+ placement partners include fractabee [[enl] ta ull m x accenture +k MathCo MORNINGSTAR 0) Healtticat te) 17 --- OCR from --- Why Scaler is Right for You @ About Scaler @ Ecosystem Designed for Learning @ The Scaler Track Record @ Transitions of Our Learners @ Hear From Our Learners --- OCR from --- q)  _ 19 About Scaler Transforming Careers Since 2019 v (ti ae aa) | 15k+ satisfied Top 1% industry 89.5% success learners instructors rate Programs We Offer > Online > Offline Academy (Software Development) Scaler School of Technology Data Science Scaler School of Business DevOps Neovarsity (Masters Degree) Backed by the Best in the Industry @ Kunal Shah @ Deepinder Goel @ Binny Bansal Founder, J CRED Co-founder, FREE Co-Founder, Flipkart @ Rajan Anandan @ Vijay Shekhar Sharma MD, peak xv MD, Payiin --- OCR from --- a) Ecosystem Designed for Learning Access to Class Recordings for up to 6 months after course completion Reset Course Option to help you restart as and when you need it Pause & Resume from the nearest milestone and get credit back after resuming the course Al-enabled Resume Builder to help you make it through resume screenings at top companies \ 5 Microsoft | already had all the tools to find my way in the world, but Scaler and its faculty helped me understand how to use these tools. It also helped me form a framework to go for reputable jobs and curate my profile according to my strengths. fe), Priyanka Kumari Lead Engineer Infosys > SAMSUNG Thanks to Abhimanyu Saxena and Anshuman Singh for creating a wonderful learning platform. | would like to thank Kshitij Mishra, Naman Bhalla, Pragy Agarwal for their wonderful sessions. Thanks to them, | got offers from world's leading companies. Anuj Maurya | Software Developer wipro amazon The quality of education in the academy boosted my skill level and pushed me. With their industry level experience, mock interviews and incredibly supportive mentors. Receiving an offer letter from Amazon before the completion filled me with pleasure. Akash Srivastava Software Engineer 2 lcs Adobe Instead of being boxed into categories, we were encouraged to learn skills like dynamic programming and have fun. The mentor system is helpful for people like me who face difficulty finding the right guidance. | believe I've invested my time well. 19 --- OCR from --- The Scaler Neovarsity Batch Looks Stellar! Upskilling with experts is all well and good, but having a stellar batch makes your upskilling journey 10OX more challenging & exciting. Meet your potential batchmates & brace yourself for a brighter skill-driven career. 9.4% (10+ Years) Learners Work sows Experience 22.4% (0-2 Years) (5-10 Years) | | | ft | 27.9% (2-5 Years) 45% i Learners Industry Background Lt 19.1% Non |T/Business Roles 66.4% Software Developer/ Engineers SCALER @ 20 --- OCR from --- Learners Academic Background BM ts/NiTs/BITs )) Others 10.1% Join the versatile community of aspirational working professionals who are all set to #Createlmpact in the real world. 57.2 LPA Average Salary Post Scaler viz a viz years of experience SLOLPA I 0-2 years a 2-6 years I) 6-10 years 166LPA I) 10+ years SCALER @ 21 --- OCR from --- Ready to act on your Dreams? We can help you! Anshuman Co-Founder, SCALER & Si ng h Ex - facebook Anshuman Singh is the Co-Founder of Scaler and a two-time ACM ICPC world finalist. He was one of the founding team members of Facebook Messenger and worked directly with Mark Zuckerberg on product development. Naman Bhalla | ~ Cog Ex-Googler, Naman Bhalla secured global rank 135 at Google's Kickstart Round D, and 37th rank at ACM ICPC Kanpur Regionals, 2019-20. Naman is proficient in Spring, React, Redis, Kafka, and Flask. Currently, he is heading and building Scaler Topics from scratch. Deepak Kasera Deepak Kasera is a software engineer with expertise in machine learning, algorithms, and problem-solving. He built scalable, real-time solutions to enhance global Amazon Transportation Services using APIs and microservices. Ex- amazon ~~ SCALER 22 --- OCR from --- Utkarsh Gupta An ex-Googler in Germany, Utkarsh is a master at Codeforces and a 6-star coder at CodeChef. He secured AIR 1 in Google Hash Code 2019. Skilled in core Java, C, C++, Object Oriented Programming, Boolean Algebra, and Mathematical Analysis. At present, Utkarsh is a Team Manager and Instructor at InterviewBit/Scaler. Ex - Google , Germany Siddharth Taneja EX - medi2 net Siddharth Taneja is the Director of Engineering at Scaler Academy, and has over 11 years of experience in building high-quality tech products. He has worked across a spectrum of companies, from MNCs to startups, and has a proven track record as a top-rated Full Stack instructor. Join the versatile community of aspirational working professionals who are all set to #Createlmpact in the real world. SCALER &) 23 --- OCR from --- Navigate your career with Our Mentors Get clarity on your career path and tackle every stage of your upskilling journey with 1:1 guidance. Our mentors will go all the way to help you with your queries interview insights, placement assistance, and make sure you forge ahead with the right guidance. V, BE Microsoft Mohammad Imran is a senior engineer at Microsoft proficient in building large scale applications like Outlook and Teams that serves millions of users everyday. His expertise includes Java, C#, NodeJS and React and building native apps using Swift, cloud computing using Azure and AWS. Prafull Kumar Gupta, facebook Prafull Kumar Gupta is a senior Android developer at Facebook with over 12 years of experience on projects like Samsung Kids, Smart Things, and Samsung Smart-View, among others. He has a strong grasp of algorithms, data structures, and mobile technologies like Android-SDK, Retrofit, and Glide. Anurag Tripathi, Hm Microsoft Anurag Tripathi is a Senior Software Engineer at Microsoft with over 12 years of experience spanning Business Intelligence, E-Commerce, and Fashion industries. He is an expert in RDBMS, NoSQL, Elastic Search, Apache Kafka, Java, Spring Framework, and AWS and Azure cloud platforms. Saurabh Singh, JPMORGAN CHASE & Co. Saurabh Singh is a software engineer at JPMorgan Chase with over 9 years of experience in designing and optimising microservices. His expertise include microservices, software architecture, cloud computing, agile methodologies, data structures, Apache Kafka, and back-end web development. SCALER @ 24 --- OCR from --- Scaler Support your Career With the right career support, you can make a real-world impact. Fasten your seatbelts, we're going to accelerate your career. Practise mock interviews Polish your resume, LinkedIn Profile & with Industry Ninjas get the needed Placement Assistance Connect & collaborate Access job opportunities from 600+ with 20K+ Scaler alumni Partner Employees From checking our brochure to making the leap to their Dream companies- they made it. G gl amazon BE Microsoft Mind Gold man Myntra media.net Flipkart 5g achs ol x NUTANDX  EY 2  accenture amazon = JQ IMPACT. @) Mindtree cited AMERICAN EXL fractabee MPL: > MathCo 1 Year of Professional Experience No-prior Computer Science Experience Required 08 --- --- Curriculum Outline For Beginner Batches Core Modules DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 45) Introduction to Programming (Beginner) 1 & 2 2 10 DSA 1, 2, 3 and 4 5 20 Database & SQL 1 5 High Level Design 1 5 Gen AI for SWE 2 5 Note:- This is a mandatory module for the Masters Degree program. Backend and Fullstack electives (choose for 25 credits) Backend (Option 1) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 25) Advance Programming Concepts 1 5 Low Level Design 1 5 Advance Software Engineering 1 5 1 10 Backend Project Fullstack (Option 2) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 25) Full-stack LLD and Development 1, 2, 3 3 15 Full-stack Capstone Project 1 10 09 --- --- Curriculum Outline ACADEMY AND DSML (Live) ELECTIVES (Choose for 20 credits) Academy Electives (Option 1) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 20) Unchosen Specialisation 3 15 Product Management for Software Engineers 1 5 Academy Electives (Option 2) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 20) 1 5 DSA 4.2 Data Engineering 2 10 Product Management for Software Engineers 1 5 DSML Elective Live Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 3) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 20) 1 5 Data Analytics and Visualisation - Fundamentals Data Analytics and Visualisation - Probability and 1 5 Stats Data Analytics and Visualisation - Python Libraries 1 5 1 5 Product Analytics 10 --- --- Curriculum Outline DevOps, Cybersecurity, and DSML electives (choose any elective in recorded format) DevOps Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 1) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS NA 0 DevOps Tools 1 and 2 AWS 1 and 2 NA 0 IaC NA 0 Cybersecurity Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 2) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS NA 0 Cybersecurity 1, 2, 3, and 4 DSML Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 3) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS NA 0 Maths for ML Intro to ML and NN NA 0 ML: Supervised Algorithm NA 0 ML: Advance Supervised Algorithm NA 0 ML: Unsupervised and RecSys NA 0 MLOps NA 0 ML system design and data engineering NA 0 11 --- --- Curriculum Outline For Intermediate Batches Core Modules DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 45) Introduction to Programming (Intermediate) 1 & 2 1 10 Advance DSA 1, 2, 3 and 4 4 20 Database & SQL 1 5 High Level Design 1 5 Gen AI for SWE 2 5 Note:- This is a mandatory module for the Masters Degree program. Backend and Fullstack electives (choose for 25 credits) Backend (Option 1) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 25) Advance Programming Concepts 1 5 Low Level Design 1 5 Advance Software Engineering 1 5 1 10 Backend Project Fullstack (Option 2) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 25) Full-stack LLD and Development 1, 2, 3 3 15 Full-stack Capstone Project 1 10 12 --- --- Curriculum Outline ACADEMY AND DSML (Live) ELECTIVES (Choose for 20 credits) Academy Electives (Option 1) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 20) Unchosen Specialisation 3 15 Product Management for Software Engineers 1 5 Academy Electives (Option 2) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 20) 1 5 DSA 4.2 Data Engineering 2 10 Product Management for Software Engineers 1 5 DSML Elective Live Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 3) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 20) 1 5 Data Analytics and Visualisation - Fundamentals Data Analytics and Visualisation - Probability and 1 5 Stats Data Analytics and Visualisation - Python Libraries 1 5 1 5 Product Analytics 13 --- --- Curriculum Outline DevOps, Cybersecurity, and DSML electives (choose any elective in recorded format) DevOps Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 1) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS NA 0 DevOps Tools 1 and 2 AWS 1 and 2 NA 0 IaC NA 0 Cybersecurity Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 2) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS NA 0 Cybersecurity 1, 2, 3, and 4 DSML Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 3) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS NA 0 Maths for ML Intro to ML and NN NA 0 ML: Supervised Algorithm NA 0 ML: Advance Supervised Algorithm NA 0 ML: Unsupervised and RecSys NA 0 MLOps NA 0 ML system design and data engineering NA 0 14 --- --- Curriculum Outline For Advanced Batches Core Modules DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 35) Advance DSA 1, 2, 3 and 4 4 20 Database & SQL 1 5 High Level Design 1 5 Gen AI for SWE 2 5 Note:- This is a mandatory module for the Masters Degree program. Backend and Fullstack electives (choose for 25 credits ) Backend (Option 1) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 25) Advance Programming Concepts 1 5 Low Level Design 1 5 Advance Software Engineering 1 5 1 10 Backend Project Fullstack (Option 2) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 25) Full-stack LLD and Development 1, 2, 3 3 15 Full-stack Capstone Project 1 10 15 --- --- Curriculum Outline ACADEMY AND DSML (Live) ELECTIVES (Choose for 35/30 credits) Academy Electives Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 1) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 35) Unchosen Specialisation 3 15 DSA 4.2 1 5 Data Engineering 2 10 Product Management for Software Engineers 1 5 DSML Elective Live Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 2) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 30) 1 5 Data Analytics and Visualisation - Fundamentals Data Analytics and Visualisation - Probability and 1 5 Stats Data Analytics and Visualisation - Python Libraries 1 5 1 5 Product Analytics 2 10 Data Engineering 16 --- --- Curriculum Outline DevOps, Cybersecurity, and DSML electives (choose any elective in recorded format) DevOps Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 1) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS NA 0 DevOps Tools 1 and 2 AWS 1 and 2 NA 0 IaC NA 0 Cybersecurity Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 2) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS NA 0 Cybersecurity 1, 2, 3, and 4 DSML Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 3) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS NA 0 Maths for ML Intro to ML and NN NA 0 ML: Supervised Algorithm NA 0 ML: Advance Supervised Algorithm NA 0 ML: Unsupervised and RecSys NA 0 MLOps NA 0 ML system design and data engineering NA 0 17 --- --- Want to take a deep-dive into the curriculum? Click Here 18 --- --- Success Stories Success Stories of Scaler Learners Dont take our word for it, take theirs. Yash Vardhan Anuj Maurya Software Engineer Software Developer The quality of education in the way in the world, but Scaler and its academy boosted my skill level and faculty helped me understand how to pushed me. With their industry level use these tools. It also helped me form experience, mock interviews and a framework to go for reputable jobs incredibly supportive mentors. Receiving an offer letter from Amazon strengths. pleasure. Priyanka Kumari Akash Srivastava Lead Engineer Software Engineer 2 Thanks to Abhimanyu Saxena and Instead of being boxed into categories, Anshuman Singh for creating a we were encouraged to learn skills like wonderful learning platform. I would dynamic programming and have fun. like to thank Kshitij Mishra, Naman The mentor system is helpful for Bhalla, Pragy Agarwal for their wonderful sessions. Thanks to them, I got offers from world's leading I've invested my time well. companies. 19 --- --- Batch Profile The Scaler Neovarsity Batch Looks Stellar! Upskilling with experts is all well and good, but having a stellar batch makes your upskilling journey 10X more challenging & exciting. Meet your potential batchmates & brace yourself for a brighter skill-driven career. 9.4% (10+ Years) Learners Work 40.3% (0-2 Years) Experience 22.4% (5-10 Years) 27.9% (2-5 Years) 14.3% Other IT/Tech Roles Learners Industry Background 19.1% Non IT/Business Roles 66.4% Software Developer/ Engineers 20 --- --- Batch Profile Learners Academic Background 89.9% IITs/NITs/BITs Others 10.1% Join the versatile community of aspirational working professionals who are all set to #CreateImpact in the real world. Enrol Now 57.2 LPA Average Salary Post Scaler viz a viz years of experience 31.9 LPA 0-2 years 20.1 LPA 2-6 years 6-10 years 16.6 LPA 10+ years 21 --- --- Meet Our Instructors Ready to act on your Dreams? We can help you! Anshuman Co-Founder, Singh Ex - Anshuman Singh is the Co-Founder of Scaler and a two-time ACM ICPC world finalist. He was one of the founding team members of Facebook Messenger and worked directly with Mark Zuckerberg on product development. Naman Ex - Bhalla Ex-Googler, Naman Bhalla secured global rank 135 at Google's Kickstart Round D, and 37th rank at ACM ICPC Kanpur Regionals, 2019-20. Naman is proficient in Spring, React, Redis, Kafka, and Flask. Currently, he is heading and building Scaler Topics from scratch. Deepak Ex - Kasera Deepak Kasera is a software engineer with expertise in machine learning, algorithms, and problem-solving. He built scalable, real-time solutions to enhance global Amazon Transportation Services using APIs and microservices. 22 --- --- Meet Our Instructors Utkarsh Gupta Ex - , Germany An ex-Googler in Germany, Utkarsh is a master at Codeforces and a 6-star coder at CodeChef. He secured AIR 1 in Google Hash Code 2019. Skilled in core Java, C, C++, Object Oriented Programming, Boolean Algebra, and Mathematical Analysis. At present, Utkarsh is a Team Manager and Instructor at InterviewBit/Scaler. Siddharth Ex - Taneja Siddharth Taneja is the Director of Engineering at Scaler Academy, and has over 11 years of experience in building high-quality tech products. He has worked across a spectrum of companies, from MNCs to startups, and has a proven track record as a top-rated Full Stack instructor. Join the versatile community of aspirational working professionals who are all set to #CreateImpact in the real world. Schedule a Call Now 23 --- --- Meet Our Mentors Navigate your career with Our Mentors Get clarity on your career path and tackle every stage of your upskilling journey with 1:1 guidance. Our mentors will go all the way to help you with your queries interview insights, placement assistance, and make sure you forge ahead with the right guidance. V, Mohammad Imran is a senior engineer at Microsoft proficient in building large scale applications like Outlook and Teams that serves millions of users everyday. His expertise includes Java, C#, NodeJS and React and building native apps using Swift, cloud computing using Azure and AWS. Prafull Kumar Gupta, Prafull Kumar Gupta is a senior Android developer at Facebook with over 12 years of experience on projects like Samsung Kids, Smart Things, and Samsung Smart-View, among others. He has a strong grasp of algorithms, data structures, and mobile technologies like Android-SDK, Retrofit, and Glide. Anurag Tripathi, Anurag Tripathi is a Senior Software Engineer at Microsoft with over 12 years of experience spanning Business Intelligence, E-Commerce, and Fashion industries. He is an expert in RDBMS, NoSQL, Elastic Search, Apache Kafka, Java, Spring Framework, and AWS and Azure cloud platforms. Saurabh Singh, Saurabh Singh is a software engineer at JPMorgan Chase with over 9 years of experience in designing and optimising microservices. His expertise include microservices, software architecture, cloud computing, agile methodologies, data structures, Apache Kafka, and back-end web development. 24 --- --- SSccaalleerr SSuuppppoorrtt Amp up your career With the right career support, you can make a real-world impact. Fasten your seatbelts, were going to accelerate your career. Practise mock interviews with Industry Ninjas get the needed Placement Assistance Connect & collaborate Access job opportunities from 600+ with 20K+ Scaler alumni Partner Employees Creating Impact with 1000+ tech professionals & counting... From checking our brochure to making the leap to their Dream companies- they made it. 25 --- --- How to Enrol Register your interest on 1 the Neovarsity website Book a session with a counsellor 2 (You decide the date & time) Easy and hassle-free upgrading 3 fee payment Easy on-boarding to Master's 4 Degree Platform Start your upskilling journey with Neovarsity Schedule a call now 26 --- --- THANK YOU WWW.SCALER.COM --- --- Scaler Career Transition Assessment Report 2024 Assessed by --- --- Co-founders Note The last two years have been challenging worldwide; and while the overall sentiment might be cautious, we see technology influencing and entering sectors that traditionally have kept away from it. With Data Science, Machine Learning, and AI taking the centre stage, we will see a lot of unique opportunities for those well-versed in the software-tech ecosystem. Our assessment report highlights this very fact. While the usual names of the tech industry continue to recruit, many new-age start-ups and traditional companies have forayed into the space. Technology professionals continue to be in demand and command competitive pay packages and hikes if they have a suitable knowledge base and practical skill set. The results of our assessment report have motivated us to double down on our efforts, and we hope it will help our learners understand that there is a sustainable career path for those who work hard, stay consistent, and prioritise practical learning. Abhimanyu Anshuman Saxena Singh Assessed by --- --- Assessed by --- --- Please note: The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. Past results do not guarantee future placements. Career transition outcomes are a result of building skills. Enrolling in Scaler does not guarantee results. The numbers represented herein are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. For the analysis, we have considered learners who meet Scalers adherence criteria. Adherence Criteria means learners who have 50% attendance, or have solved 50% of the problems during the duration of the course, or are either placed. Assessed by --- --- Index Page Number 01 Report Highlights 03 Learner Profile 04 Hike Distribution 05 Type of Roles (Placement-wise) 06 Avg. Hike Pre and Post Scaler Data Science 07 Career Transition 08 Learner Testimonials 09 Top Employers 11 Employer Testimonials Assessed by --- --- 01 SCALER ACADEMY 0  2 Yrs 20% 2  4 Yrs 36% 4  7 Yrs 29% 7+ Yrs 15% Report SCALER Highlights DATA SCIENCE 0  1 Yr 28% 1  4 Yrs C A R E E R T R A N S I T I O N R A T E 35% Scaler Academy Scaler Data Science 4  7 Yrs 23% 96% 83% 7+ Yrs 14% ELIFORP RENRAEL Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 02 Placement Statistics MEDIAN CTC Overall Top 25% Middle 80% SCALER 25 48 25 ACADEMY LPA LPA LPA MEDIAN CTC Overall Top 25% Middle 80% SCALER 18 35 18 DATA SCIENCE LPA LPA LPA SCALER ACADEMY SCALER DATA SCIENCE Pre and Post Scaler Salary Hike Pre-Scaler CTC Post-Scaler CTC Pre-Scaler CTC Post-Scaler CTC 1,50,00,000 2,03,00,000 1,10,00,000 2,10,00,000 Max Max Median 9,00,000 25,00,000 Median 7,00,000 18,00,000 SCALER ACADEMY SCALER DATA SCIENCE Hike in CTC% Hike in CTC% 150% 110% Median Median Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 03 Learner Profile Years of Experience Our learners come with a wide range of work experience SCALER DATA SCIENCE 28% 35% 0  1 Year 1  4 Years 23% 14% 4  7 Years 7+ Years Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 04 Hike Distribution SCALER DATA SCIENCE 0% 200% 400% 600% 800% Analyst Associate Consultant Data Scientist Developer Leadership ML Engineer Manager Mid-senior Dev Others Senior Analyst Sr. Data Scientist Senior Developer Senior ML Engineer Sr. Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Tech Lead UI/UX Design Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 22% Data Scientist Avg. CTC  20,28,226 %2 766,66,93  CTC .gvA pihsredaeL 000,00,53  CTC .gvA LM .rS %1 reenignE 12% Manager Avg. CTC  22,41,563 CTC .gvA LM %9 766,12,22  reenignE CTC .gvA %9 tnatlusnoC 648,34,14  CTC .gvA roines-diM %3 000,57,42  repoleveD 05 Type of Roles (Placement-wise) SCALER DATA SCIENCE 12% 12% 18% Sr. Data Tech Lead Scientist Sr. Developer Avg. CTC Avg. CTC Avg. CTC  24,06,200  32,03,125  45,21,877 Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 06 Average Hike Pre & Post Scaler Data Science Pre Post Average Salary 0 10L 20L 30L 40L 50L  9.35L Consultant  41.43L Leadership  27.66L  39.66L ML  23.5L Engineer*  22.21L Mid-senior  12.25L Developer  24.75L Senior  31L Analyst*  16.18L Senior  15L Associate Senior  18L Data Scientist  45.21L Senior  11.43L Developer  24.06L Senior Systems  3.66L Engineer  12.5L  13.28L Tech Lead  32.03L Senior ML  35L Engineer Overall Average Salary:  15.47L  30.68L Note *The absolute volume of ML Engineers and Senior Analyst has increased; hence the Average pre-Scaler Salary is higher than post-Scaler Salary. -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 07 Career Transition SCALER DATA SCIENCE Data Scientist Lead Data Scientist Member of Technical Staff ML Engineer Business Intelligence Analyst Sr. Data Engineer Systems Engineer Data Scientist Data Scientist Lead Data Scientist Sr. Analyst Data Scientist Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 08 Learner SCALER Testimonials DATA SCIENCE "Scaler is one of the best platform I have come across. I did enough research prior to investing in Scaler. If you use it properly, it is the best platform. They are doing a fantastic job & the instructors are superb. They keep teaching us and clearing doubts beyond midnight. I'm happy to see the dedication Vivek Prakash of the entire team." It just feels like yesterday that I joined Scaler's Data Science and Machine Learning Program. I do not even remember how the past few months just flew by. The last 1 year at Scaler has literally altered the course of my life. From being completely directionless and hopeless, to regaining my Avijit Swain confidence, this has been an unbelievable turnaround for me. To upskill and prepare for a career in data science, I joined Scaler. The curriculum is amazing and the assignments help you build your problem-solving ability step-by-step! In the initial days of my course, I was balancing my Master's, work and also Scaler curriculum. It was quite hard, but with time, I Mandar Manohar Chavan prepared a schedule for myself. Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 09 Learner SCALER Testimonials DATA SCIENCE I was already impressed with the first Masterclass taken by Mudit Goel. But when I began the DSML course, it was even better with my instructor Bipin Kalra who taught me to code from the scratch and help me fight against my coding phobia. In fact, I had no option but to fight the phobia. Sudhendu Kumar Learning about DSML every day is making me realise how broad its scope is. And especially with the emerging trends, this field is only bound to grow further. Id like to thank the Scaler team- from great instructors like Mohit Uniyal to Scaler teaching assistants who made my transition into the DSML field so much smoother. While Data Analytics wasn't my initial area of interest, attending classes and immersing myself in Sunshodan Makkar learning allowed me to discover a genuine interest and passion for it. The best way to learn something is by diving straight into the deep-end and broadening your horizons. For that, I would like to specifically thank Srikanth Varma Chekuri. Having an in-depth understanding of the various projects we can target - as a fresher or an experienced Mayank Khandelwal professional - was super exciting to learn about. Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 10 SCALER DATA SCIENCE Top Employers Scaler alumni work at a wide variety of companies, such as: Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 11 Employer SCALER Testimonials DATA SCIENCE When GreenPepper sought to hire interns for our AI Collective to conduct AI product research and develop Krishna Kumar prototypes, the Scaler team excelled in organising the process. They systematically and professionally managed shortlisting, validating learners with the necessary skills and willingness, and executing assignments as part of the selection process. We deeply appreciate the Scaler team's agile and quick problem-solving approach in this collaboration. I wanted to take a moment to express my sincere appreciation for all the support and assistance you have provided to Fractal. Your dedication and expertise have been invaluable in helping us provide good pool of Full-stack Developers. Your team's commitment to excellence and willingness to go above and beyond have not gone unnoticed. Whether Mansil it was providing guidance on technical challenges, offering Dua technical trainings to the learners, relevant project exposure, your contributions have made a significant impact on our success. We truly appreciate the partnership we have with Scaler and look forward to continuing to work together in the future. Your professionalism, knowledge, and commitment to customer satisfaction are commendable, and we are grateful for the opportunity to collaborate with such a talented team. Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- --- OCR from --- What is Scaler Academy? Scaler Academy is an online, transformative upskilling platform for working tech professionals. Our industry-vetted approach towards teaching & training young professionals not only helps them upskill but also #Createlmpact in the real world. We are dedicated to creating an ecosystem that nurtures our learners and helps them unlock their talent, skills, and opportunities at every stage of their careers. Learners enrolled with us are taught, guided, and mentored by industry veterans and experts from leading tech organizations, including Google, Meta, Netflix, Microsoft, Amazon, Hotstar, and Twitter. Founders Founded by IIIT Hyderabad alums Anshuman Singh and Abhimanyu Saxena. Pre-Scaler, Anshuman was working with Facebook in the USA office as a Technical Team Lead, where he helped in building Facebook chats and messages, along with Messenger. He then moved to London to build Facebooks first office outside of the USA, which would work to automate the data ingestion framework. He is a competitive programmer and a two-time ACM ICPC World Finalist. Abhimanyu led a high-velocity team that designed NYC-based retail marketplace Fab.coms entire front end before joining Scaler as a co-founder. As a seasoned entrepreneur, Abhimanyu co-founded his first enterprise, Daksh Home Automation System, in his engineering days. He worked on developing a cost-effective and green Al system to reduce electricity consumption by at least 15% per household. What do we do? Scaler aims to effectively enhance the skills of tech professionals with an industry-vetted approach. We are on a mission to create 1M+ world-class tech professionals by providing them with exceptional mentorship and relevant course material to #Createlmpact. Our teaching army (instructors + mentors) of veterans from Top Tech Giants guides and mentors every learner, according to their individual pace. From preparing for interviews to helping them overcome their career hurdles, the assistance is provided via both 1:1 mentorship and group discussions. Apart from that, the Scaler Community of Learners, Mentors, and Alumni grows stronger by the day as we exchange constructive feedback, guidance, referrals, and other career opportunities. --- OCR from --- Our learners spend an average of 3-5 hours daily on the platform learning and upskilling. We provide them access to a comprehensive curriculum, industry-relevant skills, Live Classes, Mock Interviews, and 1:1 Mentorship from over 1000 experts from established companies including Meta, Amazon, Google, Directi and Microsoft. Combining all, we aim to bridge the gap between the Tech Industry and Tech Education. Why do we do? In this dynamic world, where innovation is the catalyst for change, it is high time to revamp the tech learning system. The more we engaged with tech professionals, the more we realised the dire need for an industry-relevant curriculum and upright mentorship that helps aspiring learners upskill and forge ahead in their respective fields. Within a year of starting our operations, we have successfully upskilled 4000+ graduates by assisting them to land their dream jobs in leading tech companies. Over 600+ organisations today trust us with their tech talent recruitment. We have built a reputation for tech excellence with outcomes comparable to leading national and international educational institutions. And we will continue to #Createlmpact. Our Investors We have raised 76.5 million USD in investment to date and are operationally profitable. Marquee investors back us: Sequoia Tiger Global GFC Rocket Internet --- OCR from --- SCALER a) DEVOPS AND CLOUD COMPUTING PROGRAM Guided by Indias finest instructors --- OCR from --- About Scaler Scaler is an outcome-focused leading ed-tech platform for working professionals. We are devoted towards creating a growth ecosystem to assist professionals in unlocking their talent and seizing opportunities at every stage of their careers. Learners enrolled with us are taught, guided, and mentored by top professionals and experts working at leading organisations including Google, Facebook, Intuit, Microsoft, Amazon, Hotstar, etc. Our program- DevOps & Cloud Computing aims toward empowering both IT Professionals & Software Developers to upskill in the most effective way. --- OCR from --- Index Devops Overview 03 First-of-a-kind, 12-16 month program Scaler Advantage O5 Advanced level certifications | Real-world assignments Course Outline O6 Get industry-ready & future-proof Industry Certifications 10 Add verified skills to your portfolio | Meet Your Instuctors 1] | Learn from top tech experts Know Your Mentors 13 Engage with mentors for unique perspectives | Learning Pedagogy 14 | Discover how the course unfolds Scaler Support & Network 16 Access job opportunity from 1200+ partner companies Learner Testimonial 17 Reviews from Scaler alumni --- OCR from --- DEVOPS OVERVIEW What India Saw in the Last Phase of 2023 60% | 75% | 70% surge in demand for companies hired for boost in developer DevOps roles DevOps roles productivity These compelling percentages underscore the indisputable demand and impact of DevOps roles in today's tech landscape. Scalers DevOps & Cloud Computing program is a carefully designed, 12-16 month program to catapult your career into a highly competitive world of technology. Delivered through an in-depth curriculum, this course is guided by industry leaders who bring years of experience to mentor and steer you toward professional growth. Our mission is to empower you with the right skills to help you become a solid DevOps professional. You will gain invaluable exposure and practical skills through our hands-on approach involving 50+ real-world sandbox projects. Hence, with your hardwork and our thorough knowledge of the DevOps industry, together lets take your career to new heights. SCALER @) 2 $_______________ --- OCR from --- DEVOPS OVERVIEW Program Highlights Discover what lies ahead of you in this exciting journey, as you upskill with us.  One-of-a-kind 12-month course Live classroom learning Doubt-solving by teaching assistants Placement assistance > oO Ff  Qe Oo w& ooo Ko oo | oo] Industry-vetted, structured curriculum 1:1 Mentroship with industry experts 50+ Real-world case studies 900+ Partner companies SCALER @) a ________ --- OCR from --- SCALER ADVANTAGE Adding the Scaler Touch to Devops Scaler's approach in DevOps & Cloud Computing promises an enriching and personalised learning journey, equipping you with the relevant tools and insights to thrive. Dive into 50+ real-world assignments with datasets from top tech companies for hands-on learning. Join live case study discussions with seasoned experts to refine your problem-solving skills. Experience peer-to-peer learning in live classrooms to get diverse and unique perspectives. growth-tracking process. Stay aligned with set deadlines, allowing for optimal! learning experiences, with penalties in case of delays. Get immediate assignment evaluations, benchmark progress, and earn extra credit for dedication. Enjoy flexible learning at your own pace, with the freedom to pause your course when needed. >) >] >] a) Track grades, attendance, and milestones seamlessly with our >] >] >] SCALER @) i ___ ______ --- OCR from --- COURSE OUTLINE Our comprehensive structure underlines the importance of each module so that you have a clear understanding of the course. 1 Month (Module 1) 3 Months (Module 2) Programming Language: Python Introduction to Data Types & Operators Control Statements Loops (While and For) Advanced Looping Functions 1 Functions 2 Lists List Slicing and List 2D Strings Tuples and Sets Dictionaries Data Structure and Algorithms Arrays Bit Manipulation Recursion Backtracking Maths for Problem-Solving OOPS Basics Sorting Python is a non-negotiable skill for DevOps engineers. It allows you to strengthen your base which is essential for automating and streamlining DevOps processes. Foundational DSA is crucial for securing a well-paid role in DevOps or Cloud Computing. SCALER @) TT $______________ J --- OCR from --- COURSE OUTLINE Hashing Searching (Binary Search) Two Pointers Linked Lists Stacks Queues Binary Tree BST This module will ensure that you are well-pre pared for DSA interview rounds. 2.5 Month (Module 3) 2.5 Months (Module 4) Linux and Computer Systems Linux Shell Scripting Computer Networks Operating Systems Process Management SQL DevOps Tools Ansible, Chef, Puppet Git, Github Actions, Container Registry, GitOps ArgoCD Prometheus, Grafana Docker Kubernetes Jenkins Terraform In-depth knowledge of Linux and CS directly helps you in your day-to-day job. We prepare you beyond theory, mastering practical problem-solving and analysis.. This module focusses on equipping you with the right skills to tackle complex problems using tools like Docker, Kubernetes, Ansible, Prometheus, Git, and many more, essential for DevOps roles. SCALER @) _ NN _____ fg --- OCR from --- COURSE OUTLINE 2 Months (Module 5) AWS EC2, ECS, EKS, ECR IAM (RBAC), Single Sign On, Multi Factor Authentication Lambda, Fargate, Elasticbeanstalk VPC, Security Groups, NAT, SubNets, ENI Cost Efficiency Regions and Availability Zones Route 53, CloudFront, API Gateway ELB, ALB, NLB, Auto-Scaling Groups CI/CD - CodeCommit, Codebuild, CodePipeline, CodeDeploy RDS, DynamoDB, Aurora Redshift, S3 CloudFormation SQS, SNS, SES CloudWatch, EventBridge Secrets Manager, Certificate Manager, Key gement Service AWS is the most popular cloud provider in the industry as of today. It provides multiple products that help companies build highly available, scalable systems. It is a must-have skill for many DevOps and Cloud Computing roles, with most companies having their software systems on the cloud. Learning the above modules will make you industry-ready for DevOps, Cloud Engineer, and Cloud Associates roles. SCALER @) $$ __________j --- OCR from --- COURSE OUTLINE Optional Electives System Design Cache Learn to build scalable systems, essential for SRE roles at top tech 2 Months Microservices ies like Gooal (Module 6) een Sdlcs companies like Google. Elevate your System Neri Desi kills fe ful Views Queues esign skills for successfu interviews. Advance DSA Greedy This module teaches Dynamic Programming advanced data structures Graphs and algorithms like Advanced Math Problems Dynamic Programming 3 Months Advanced Backtracking and graphs that are (Module 7) Problems Heaps Tries Strings Pattern Matching Advanced Dynamic Programming Problems Advanced Graph Concepts important for interview processes of SRE roles. After completing these extra modules you'll be ready for SRE, Infrastructure & Platform Engineer Roles. SCALER @) A __________j --- OCR from --- INDUSTRY CERTIFICATIONS Prepare Yourself for Larger Goals Our course will prepare you up to the standard of industry-reputed certifications, equipping you with the skills and knowledge that will significantly improve your resume shortlisting rates by up to 50%. oa MIRANTIS Please note: Scaler only prepares students to achieve these certifications. The charges for the certifications are not included in the course fee and must be paid by the candidates separately if they wish to take the exam. SCALER @) TT ______________ fg --- OCR from --- MEET YOUR INSTRUCTORS Learn from Top Industry Experts Who Once Walked In Your Shoes Learning from seasoned instructors offers practical insights and industry wisdom, bridging the gap between theory and real-world applications for learners. Meet the instructors who will guide you through every challenge. Anshuman Co-Founder, SCALER @ Singh Ex-0Q Meta Naman Ex- Google and Bhalla 32 cult fit SCALER I $$ __________ J --- OCR from --- MEET YOUR INSTRUCTORS Utkarsh Gupta Prateek Narang Shivank Agrawal Deepak Kasera Ex- Google, AIR-1 in Google Hash Code 2019 Ex- Google and Co- Founder at C@DING MINUTES Ex- Gi Microsoft Ex- ORACLE Ex-amazon and SAMSUNG SCALER @ ________________________y --- OCR from --- KNOW YOUR MENTORS Take your Learning to New Heights Navigate your career path through personalised 1:1 mentorship. Get expert guidance, interview tips, placement support and assurance of being on the right track. Vijay Hedge DevOps Engineer Walmart Vijay is experienced in implementing top-notch DevOps methodologies and utilizes various tools & technologies to drive automation for imapctful scenarios. Rakesh Budde Software Engineer-1 Rakesh led the successful migration of Docker Compose services to Kubernetes, ensuring seamless deployments using Python, Django Rest & more. SCALER @) Shivansh Bajpai DevOps Engineer-3 amazon Shivansh led full-scale data transformation at Azure Databricks, using Python and SQL to process Avro files into data frames. He also addressed real-time QA/ PROD issues. Arnab Seal Sr. DevOps Engineer Z Inflection Arnab Seal is driving the tranformation of Inflection.ios platform using tools like AWS, Terraform, Python, Github and more. --- OCR from --- | LEARNING PEDAGOGY Onboarding Session Course Introduction: Start in a customised cohort and forge meaningful connections with people who will be your allies on this journey. Choose your Mentor: Select the right mentor for guidance and gain invaluable insights to boost your career. Meet a Learning Coordinator: Ensure seamless progress, support, and effective communication so you don't feel lost at any point in the course. SCALER &) --- OCR from --- LEARNING PEDAGOGY LIVE Learning From real-time interaction to instant clarification of doubts, learning in a live classroom always holds more value than a self-paced course. Assignments & Homeworks Develop your skills & deepen your understanding by applying the techniques learned in class. Cloud Sandbox Get hands-on learning experience by solving 50+ real case studies that include data sets from top tech companies. Al-assisted Problem-solving Support: Learn in a LIVE classroom Engage with instructors and your peers in real time to get diverse perspectives and instant clarifications. Situational Problem & Solin Aids you in developing critical thinking skills, enhancing your ability to analyse and resolve diverse problems. 1:1 Mentor Guidance From personalised mentorship to tailored support, our mentors will guide you through every doubt. 1:1 Teaching Assistance Live chat and video call to resolve individual queries & questions to avoid any hindrances in your academic growth. Get insightful recommendations and solutions across a spectrum of challenges for improved efficiency and effectiveness. SCALER 9 $$$ ______________ --- OCR from --- SCALER NETWORK & SUPPORT Give your Career the Boost it Deserves With the right support and career guidance, your skills can add real impact to tech companies. We'll push your limits and prepare you like a soldier ready for war! Get exclusive job Optimise your resume, and A Opportunities A LinkedIn profile to make them , through our 1200+  industry-ready. Get full partner network. placement assistance. Practice mock Connect and collaborate By interviews with A with your peers to get your mentors. unique perspectives. Our Alumni are at reputed Tech Companies & promising Startups Microsoft Walmart amazon CreprrSuisseTM DELHIVErY Pay lipkart a 4 Walmart Labs media.net @dgojek Mind @) Mindtree Cognizant zeta Adobe A) pale ATEASS IAN CRED fo} OLA  PhonePe NVIDIA. facebook UBER Paysafe SAMSUNG wakefit toppr SCALER 9 $$ __________ --- OCR from --- LEARNER TESTIMONIALS What our Learners say about Scaler? Perhaps the biggest challenge in my journey was to find the right place that would give structure to my learning. Scaler's course really helped ina way my college couldn't. -Ishan Sarma, SDE-I, amazon T Scalers curriculum included all sorts of industry-relevant content, which was indeed what I needed at the time. | learned how to manage my time efficiently to maximise my results. -Bharath Veldi DevOps Engineer, amazon T I truly cherish my journey to Zetwerk, and | could not have accomplished it without Scalers help. The curriculum is industry standard, which helps one prepare for real-life challenges. -Abirami S, SDE-II, SCALER 9 2 _$_______________________fg --- OCR from --- Scan the QR code to take the first step towards becoming a SOLID DevOps Engineer Request A Callback  Visit: httos:/A --- OCR from --- SCALER @) --- --- SCALER PGP-MT SCHOOLOF (PGP in Mgmt BUSINESS and Tech) Indias only B-School Designed by Leaders Who Have Run Large Scale Businesses --- --- Directors Desk Anshuman Singh Co-founder, Scaler ($700 Million Company) Ex-Tech Lead, Facebook Messenger Set up Facebooks London Office India's business landscape is experiencing a seismic shift. Technological advancements & integrations, initiatives like 'Make in India' and increased startup funding have transformed how Indians approach business. Today technology is no longer an afterthought, it is a critical element for the survival of a business. However, traditional B-schools need to prepare graduates to meet the challenges of the modern business world. Theres a substantial gap between what conventional business programs teach and the skills needed to thrive in this tech-powered business landscape. A 2020 India Skill Report shows that only 46.59% of students have enough professional skills to get hired. --- --- SSCCAALLEERR SSCCHHOOOOLLOOFF BBUUSSIINNEESSSS There is a need for a Business program that integrates management and technology, narrows the skill gap, and aims to align educational outcomes with the demands of today's workplace. After months of research and gauging the current industry needs, weve designed a program that delivers just that. Through Scaler School of Business, we are launching a one-of-a-kind PG Program in Management & Technology, 18 months long, full-time, and on campus. The PG Program in Mgmt and Tech places a premium on practical and experiential learning, through company-sourced projects, immersive case studies, and direct engagement with industry leaders. Our students will gain invaluable experience that transcends the confines of the classroom, leaving no stone unturned and no business fundamentals unlearned. Clubbed with our comprehensive, opt-in residential services, this program is the lever that you need to pull to become a sought-after leader! At Scaler, we're not creating followers; we're nurturing leaders who will shape the future of business. Welcome to the era of innovation and new-age business education! Anshuman Singh --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS The Need for an Industry-focused B-school in Today's India The world of business is revolutionising faster than before. The present times have signalled a clear shift powered by tech advancements like AI, ML, Blockchain and more. Hence, the future of work demands a tech-savvy workforce. A McKinsey report estimates that 375M* global workers will need to adapt to AI and automation by 2030. India will face an even steeper challenge based on how organisations adapt and adopt the change. Early business education began with foundational subjects like maths and economics to equip students with core business understanding. Over time, with the industrys growing needs, it expanded to functions like marketing, finance, and operations. Today, however, the focus has shifted towards industry-specific skills and integrating technology into business strategy. 2024 demands an educational approach that is practical-first, tech elevated and goes beyond the traditional. Moreover, a survey by GMAC emphasises how soft skills like the ability to adapt to technological shifts and strategic thinking will be valued more over traditional business knowledge. With 10M new jobs* projected by 2027 in India, we aim to equip future leaders with the skills to thrive in this digital era. Our PG Program in Mgmt. & Tech focuses on empowering students through practical skills & equipping them with tech. *Verified by Mckinsey Global Institute, TeamLease Services & Graduate Management Admission Council --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Welcome to Scaler School of Business Our PG Program in Management and Technology emphasises hands-on learning along with traditional lectures. Delivered by industry leaders with decades of experience in building & scaling businesses from ground zero, this program truly mirrors the reality of new-age companies. From industry-preferred skills to real-world metrics, each aspect of the program echoes the sound of modernisation. Duration Eligibility 18-month PG Program Bachelors degree with a with 3-months compulsory minimum of 1 year of work internship experience (Freshers are welcome to apply as well) Campus Selective Location Admissions Opt-in residential situated Looking for the top 2% of in the heart of Indias exceptional candidates Silicon Valley-Bengaluru --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Expertise that Delivers: Scalers Proven Track Record Our Alumni Work at* & 900 more 900 CR 3700+ 1.7 CR Salary created Hired more Scaler Learners Highest salary, for Scaler graduates than all placed at 21.6 LPA graduates in the IITs combined top tech average salary the last 4 yrs in 2022 companies of learners *Verified by , the data is explicitly from Scalers working professionals course Supported & Mentored By Indias Top Business Leaders Rajan Anandan Binny Bansal Deepinder Goyal Apurva Dalal Ex-VP SEA, Co-Founder, Co-Founder, Engineering Lead Ex- Vijay Shekhar Kunal Shah Amrish Rau Prasanna Sankar Sharma Co-Founder, CEO, Co-Founder, Founder, and 100+ industry leaders --- --- Built on 4 Pillars of Doing Business in this Decade: Project Evaluation Solidify Your by Industry Leaders Professional Profile Get practical feedback from Strengthen your resume experts who have built business through company-sourced empires from scratch projects & a 3-month internship Be 10x Better Build Your MVP with With AI & Tech Innovation Lab Learn AI tools and tech from Leverage tech resources at the sharpest minds at Scaler to Scalers Tech Innovation Lab to manage your work like a pro give wings to your ideas --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS A Curriculum that WMe dievrerlopoedr a sco mCpreohenmsive pcurrliceuluxm ibtasieed osn d eotailfed discussions with the top minds from the industry, while ensuring we do not compromise our academic Todays Businesses standards. Our curriculum is crafted to sow strong foundational concepts of Computer Science, gradually elevating students to realise industrys expectations. Our curriculum is designed by seasoned business veterans who have run large-scale businesses. From experiential learning that focuses on immersive projects sourced directly from Fortune 500 companies to merging theoretical rigour with practical application, our modules prepare students to be workplace-ready. Phase 1 Phase 2 Solidify your base by learning Acquire functional, core business principles like industry-preferred skills finance, accounting, business through real-world projects & strategy and more. choose your specialisation(s) from 4 main verticals. Phase 3 Phase 4 Apply your new learning to Learn strategies and models the 3-month mandatory for driving digital innovation in internship that will further sectors like HeathTech, SaaS strengthen your core. and GenAI frontiers. --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Phase 1 Core Business Fundamentals | 6 Months Learning Execution Trimester Financial Accounting Business Performance Optimisation Marketing Strategies Trimester 1 Managerial Economics Core Business Skills Sales Strategies Business Strategy Global Economics Hackathon: Strategy Consulting Business Statistics Trimester 2 Marketing Decision Making Core Business Financial Modelling Skills Managerial Accounting Operations Management Trimester 3 Venture Capital, PE, and Strategic Investment Angel Investing Analysis Core Business Skills Organisational Behavior Business Strategy Frameworks Marketing Marketing in the Digital Age New Product Launch Campaign Operations Advanced Operations Process Improvement Management Initiative --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Learning Execution Trimester Corporate Finance Financial Health Finance Assessment and Financial Risk Management Action Plan Strategy Strategies for the Competitive Landscape Digital Economy Analysis Phase 2 Functional Specialisation | 6 Months Learning Execution Trimester Supply Chain Management The Big Brand Story: A Data-Driven Approach Data-Driven Decision Making Trimester 4 Building & Sustaining Brand Core Business Skills Equity Product Management Basics Personal Finance & Investment Portfolio Optimisation Challenge Options & Futures Trading Finance Mergers & Acquisition Going Public & Going Private --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Learning Execution Trimester Financial Markets Finance Real Estate Finance International Finance Managing Services in the E-commerce Operations Digital World Transformation Operating a Platform Product Operating a Logistics Product Operations Sustainable Operations Project Management Quality Mgmt. & Lean Operations Corporate Development Strategy Bootcamp - Emerging Tech Corporate Governance Change Management Global Strategic Management Strategy Pricing Strategies Corporate Restructuring and Transformation Strategic Innovation Mangement Global Marketing Strategies Market Basket Analysis for Retail Chain Marketing Advanced Market Analysis Digital & Social Media Strategies --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Learning Execution Trimester Rural Market Penetration Marketing B2B Marketing Consumer Insights & Trends Interview Interview Readiness for Interview Mastery Readiness Domain-specific Roles Bootcamp Trimester 5 Internships Phase 3-month Mandatory Industry Internship Immersion User Funnels - New/Retained Build an AI Tool Applications of GenAI in from Scratch Business HealthTech Trimester 6 FinTech Industry EdTech Specialisations SaaS GenAI Frontiers Blockchain & Web3 --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Designed by Industry Pioneers with Unparalleled Expertise Gain real-world knowledge directly from business experts, who have been there and done that. Bhavik Rathod President, Scaler School Ex-CEO, He made Uber rule the roads of India and converted the business into a billion-dollar revenue powerhouse through his strategic insights and leadership qualities. Manish Pansari Operations Leader, Scaler Ex-CXO & Head of Ops, Manish transformed Myntra into a $400 million e-commerce giant, bringing deep knowledge of growth strategies and customer engagement. Vidit Jain Strategy Leader, Scaler Ex-Engagement Leader, Having led teams at McKinsey and Mobile Premier League (MPL), Vidits analytical approach redefines strategic excellence. Their combined knowledge of scaling, optimising, and managing some of India's most successful businesses ensures the curriculum is relevant and dynamic. --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Real-world Projects. Real-world Feedback. Student assignments will undergo critical evaluation by seasoned experts and CXOs, guaranteeing that feedback is rooted in real-world applicability. 1 2 Product Launch GTM Business Strategy Ideate, build and pitch detailed, Tackle a diverse range of go-to-market plans to learn how initiatives, including to launch new products in the streamlining supply chains, market and drive demand. diversifying product portfolios and improving customer engagement cycles. 3 4 Product Management Venture Capital Work on research-backed From presenting innovative solutions for challenges like FinTech solutions to outlining enhancing UI for mobile apps, a B2B SaaS platform's growth refining SaaS products and strategy, students will propose building product roadmaps for scalable app solutions to integrating AI. venture capitalists. Such 1:1 engagement with CXOs, COOs and seasoned professionals refines students' strategic thinking abilities and establishes whether their learnings fit todays needs. --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Sneak Peek into Scalers Tech Innovation Lab The innovation lab is a dynamic, collaborative space where students from Scaler School of Technology and Scaler School of Business come together to build products that merge practical business models with technological ingenuity. Here, aspiring engineers and business leaders-in-the-making, join hands to create Minimum Viable Products (MVPs), refine prototypes, and conduct user testing. This unique environment enables students to leverage their diverse skills, blending tech with strategic insights to bring need-based products to life. For instance, our 1st-year engineering students worked on VR ideas for Urban Company using VisionPro. The lab now awaits business intervention to elevate its project! --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Put Your Business Theories to the Lab Test Robotics Lab Explore automation, mechanics, and control systems, fostering innovation and real-world problem-solving. Drone Lab From designing and building drones to programming flight paths the drone lab is a hub for exploring your ideas. Macintosh Lab Get access to high-end Apple computers and software, enabling creative projects across verticals in a state-of-the-art environment. Networking Lab Delve into networking infrastructure and protocols to gain practical skills in preparing for challenges in IT and cybersecurity. AI & ML Lab Explore artificial intelligence and machine learning concepts through real-world projects, gaining experience in data modelling, algorithm development, and more. Don't just be a textbook learner, become a hands-on experimenter in the best way possible! --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Meet Our Instructors Wae ndevdelop eGd au comeprsehten sFive acurcricuulumlt byased on detailed discussions with the top minds from the industry, while ensuring we do not compromise our academic standards. Our curriculum is crafted to sow strong foundational concepts of Acquire real-world knowledge and develop industry-preferred Computer Science, gradually elevating students to realise industrys expectations. skills from the industrys best business minds. Theyll be your teaching guides and mentor you to be future-ready. Anshuman Singh Rahul Karthikeyan Puneet Gupta Built Facebook's London office CMO, Scaler; Ex-Head - Marketing, Principal, BCG GroupM & upGrad Manish Sapra Abhimanyu Saxena Ex Associate Partner, Team lead at Fab.com's McKinsey & Co. global offices --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Placement Assistance at Scaler School of Business 900+ hiring partners across industry domains giving graduates a power boost to begin their careers. --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Our curriculum focuses on interview preparation from the root level, where students receive tailored mentoring to excel in domain-specific interviews. Case study competitions like devising a comprehensive market entry strategy for an electric vehicle manufacturer or optimising the supply chain for a global retail chain play an important role. Our program includes a mandatory 3-month internship to build profiles ready to hit the market. +900 more companies --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Launch Your Career in Indias Startup Hub Our campus is situated in the startup capital of India  Bengaluru, offering graduates proximity to successful giants like Uber, Flipkart, & Facebook. They say walls can hear, but our campus walls seriously echo the sound of leadership, entrepreneurship and development! We share our wall boundaries with Adobe, Bosch and Genpact  all of whom will be your future recruiters. --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Opt-in Residential Hostel From world-class facilities to essential amenities, students can choose to stay in our optional hostel which is equipped with all the comforts they need to make this their home away from home. Support + & Guidance Facilities In case learners need Cafeteria, laundry, housekeeping, any academic help or counselling, high-speed WiFi, reading rooms the residential faculty and Success and medical centre to ensure Managers will provide after-hours comfort and convenience. guidance and support. 24/7 Open Library & Reading Rooms To help learners stay updated with the latest developments we have all the sources they may require like course books, e-books, journals newspapers and white papers. Safety & Extra Security Curriculars Secured & separate residential Access to a wide range of sports spaces for girls and boys, guarded facilities including a football field, by full-time security officials, and badminton, volleyball, basketball CCTV cameras. courts, etc. --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Recreational & Professional Clubs Our experiential learning isnt just limited to the classroom. Weve designed a range of clubs  from consulting to music to redefine each students experience at Scaler School of Business. Not only this, the founding cohort has the onus to identify key clubs suitable for their batch. Consulting Finance Equips students with the right Drives initiatives in the finance resources and tools necessary domain and intends to expand to build successful careers in the interests of students and consulting and strategy. alumni interested in finance. Business Entrepreneurship Tech and VC Connects professionals across Brainstorm ideas, build teams industries to share knowledge & learn all about fundraising to and develop tech skills for enhance your pitching skills. career pivots. Music Sports From live jamming sessions Compete in intra and and music nights to guest inter-collegiate tournaments concerts, this will be your place through various activities like to pursue your vocal abilities. soccer, basketball, cricket, etc. --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Scaler School of Business v/s Traditional B-schools Scalers Conventional Programs PGP-MT Curriculum Modern and equipped with Outdated and ill-equipped modules preferred by the to solve real-world business problems industry Methodology Practical-first approach Disproportionate emphasis elevated by a tech advantage on theory over practical experience Instructors Taught by business leaders No prior industry experience from specific domains like finance, strategy & operations Projects Company-sourced, real-world Age-old, theoretical projects projects to prepare for that do not solve todays key challenges on-ground crisis Mentorship 1:1 mentorship and guidance No dedicated guidance to from business experts and CXOs steer growth Resources A sprawling Tech Innovation Restricted support to test Lab to bring your ideas to life and execute ideas Employability Tailored opportunities across Lack of domain-specific tech and non-tech domains opportunities --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Eligibility and Admissions Scaler School of Business seeks individuals who aspire to become the top 1% of business leaders and innovators. Our selection process goes beyond academic achievements and includes metrics like personal interviews, comprehensive profile evaluations, and other criteria to identify exceptional candidates for our program. --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Application Process Highly selective & rigorous criteria to hand-pick the best candidates Submission of Application Candidates must submit their online application form along with the required documents and personal essays. Review & Shortlisting Applications will be reviewed rigorously by the admissions committee to assess the candidates fit for the program. Interview Round Shortlisted candidates will be invited for 2 rounds of 1:1 interviews to evaluate their suitability. Final Decision Final decision to be made based on a comprehensive review of their application and interview performance. Offer & Acceptance If selected for the program, candidates have to communicate their final decision to the admissions committee. *Note: If a candidate hasn't taken the CAT, GMAT, or GRE, they will have to take the Scaler Management Test to be eligible. The test duration is 60 minutes and will assess Quantitative, Data Interpretation, and Verbal Skills. --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Fee Structure Term 1 Term 2 Term 3 Term (July 2024) (Jan 2025) (July 2025) Admission Fees  1,00,000/- - - Tuition Fees  5,00,000/-  7,00,000/-  7,00,000/- The admission confirmation fee is non-refundable Please note that while we strive to keep our course fees affordable, they may be subject to revision in the future due to factors such as changes in market conditions, inflation, or regulatory requirements. Scholarships Scholarships act as a powerful bridge, allowing talented students to pursue their educational aspirations regardless of financial constraints. These grants alleviate the burden of tuition costs, enabling students to focus on their studies and unlock their full potential. Applying early increases the chances of receiving a scholarship. It gives the admission counsellors adequate time to review the case thoroughly before presenting it to the scholarship committee. Please note to ensure a fair application the scholarship decisions are rule-based and at the discretion of Scaler Impact Foundation and Scholarship sponsors. These are final and will not be revisited. --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS List of Scholarships At Scaler School of Business, we are committed to removing financial barriers that may hinder academic pursuits. All Scholarships would be awarded by the Scaler Impact Foundation, which is supported by industry stalwarts. Future Business Extraordinary Innovators Scholarship Achievements Scholarship Rewarding entrepreneurial spirit Honouring extraordinary and innovation in business achievements in diverse areas including academics Eligibility Eligibility Is a founder/co-founder or built a startup with a Academic Performance: Top rank in any MBA entrance measurable impact tests or merit rank at the UG level Successfully closed a funding round with VCs Competitions: Gold medal or equivalent in business case competitions, Olympiads, etc. Athletic Achievements: Accomplishments in sports at national/international level Industry Leaders Women in Scholarship Leadership Scholarship Valuing professionals with impactful Empowering women to achieve work and leadership leadership roles in business Eligibility Eligibility Recognised accomplishments in the field of work Proven leadership and strong professional with an established company achievements Consultant at tier 1/2 consulting firms Leadership position in organisations/college clubs --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS In the Spotlight: Breaking News and Industry Recognition --- --- SCALER SCHOOLOF BUSINESS Take the first step towards becoming a part of the top 1% of the business leaders in the country! Apply Now Visit: scaler.com/school-of-business --- --- FOR THE INDUSTRY, FROM THE INDUSTRY! #CreateImpact --- --- About Scaler Scaler (by InterviewBit) is an outcome-focused leading ed-tech platform for tech enthusiasts. The industry-vetted approach towards training young professionals helps them upskill and bag the career of their dreams. We are a transformative tech school devoted to creating a growth ecosystem to assist them in unlocking talent and opportunities at every stage of their careers. Students enrolled with us are taught, guided, and mentored by top professionals and experts working at leading organisations, including Google, Facebook, Intuit, Microsoft, Amazon, Hotstar, etc. Our learners have witnessed a 5x RoI (Return on Investment) from our program. Our offerings include Scaler Academy, Scaler Data Science & now, Scaler Neovarsity. --- --- INDEX 04 Introduction to Scaler Neovarsity 05 Why Neovarsity? 07 Curriculum Outline 16 Eligibility Criteria 17 Eligibility & Certification 18 Know Your Instructors 20 Know Your Mentors 21 Batch Profile 23 Scaler Support & Network 24 How to Enrol --- --- Introduction to Scaler Neovarsity A run down into Scaler Neovarsitys Masters Program 95% The large percentage indicates an evident gap between what conventional academia offers & what the industry demands - enter Scaler Neovarsity. Scaler Neovarsity is our handcrafted initiative to help techies kick-start their careers in Computer Science. In partnership with Woolf Higher Education Institution, backed by European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS) for accreditation and approved by Educational Credential Evaluators (ECE), Scaler has chalked out a Masters Program that re-invents higher education so that our Computer Science graduates meet industry standards. Scaler Neovarsity is the first institute of its kind that preserves and upholds the Skills-with-Degree culture. It can be your breakthrough from the rat-race culture of conventional education and help you scale ahead in the tech industry. The course covers foundational subjects and real-world skills in such a way that you are ready for your next step, be it top-tech companies or research. We aim to revolutionise the ed-tech space altogether so that you can #CreateImpact in your career and the tech world. tuobA 80% of professionals wish stumbled as they to understand business began working with problems better real-world datasets 04 --- --- Why Neovarsity? Neovarsity Highlights Heres what you can expect as you opt for a Masters in Computer Science by Neovarsity that validates your skillset Industry-Vetted (MAANG Cross-track Electives to Live 1:1 Mentorship & Classes Approved) Curriculum Enhance your Skills with Industry Experts Strong & Supportive Large Networking Business Case Studies on Tech Community Events Real-World Datasets Course accredited by A Dedicated Team Extended European Credit Transfer of Recruiters Placement Support System (ECTS) of 6 months 05 --- --- Why Neovarsity? The Scaler Way to be Industry-ready Whether you're aiming for higher education or a job, Neovarsity will equip you with the relevant skills to understand business, enhance your learning experience and prepare you to make immediate impact in the industry. We are ECTS accredited Designed & taught by MAANG experts Recognised by eminent Industries across the globe Transferable Credits to secure academic achievements Seamless support for higher education & employment We are ECE approved Hassle-free evaluation of credits US equivalency for academic credentials Quick & responsive document verification Immigrants & refugees are welcome International recognition of academic credentials Eligible for job opportunities globallyincluding in the US, Canada, EU, as well as India Note:- - Admission to the Master's program is solely at Woolf's discretion with the final degree decision resting with Woolf. - While Woolf is not recognised by UGC/AICTE as a foreign institute,the master's degree, ECTS-accredited, is widely accepted globally, similar to degrees from other foreign universities like Oxford. 06 --- --- Curriculum Outline FFoorr BBeeggiinnnneerr BBaattcchheess Core Modules DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 85) Tableau and Excel 5 SQL 4 5 Beginner Python 1 and 2 10 Data Analytics and Visualisation - Fundamentals 5 Data Analytics and Visualisation - Probability 5 and Stats 3 Data Analytics and Visualisation - Python Libraries 5 Product Analytics 5 Maths for ML 5 Intro to ML and NN 5 ML: Supervised Algorithms 5 6 ML: Adv Supervised Algorithms 5 ML: Unsupervised and RecSys 5 MLOPS 5 Gen Al 2 5 Note:- This is a mandatory module for the Masters Degree program. Neovarsity Project 1 10 07 --- --- Curriculum Outline Deep learning and Exclusive Cross-Track Electives (Choose for 15 credits) Deep Learning (Option 1) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 15) 5 Neural Networks Computer Vision 3 5 Natural Language Processing 5 Exclusive Cross-Track Electives (Option 2) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 15) Data Engineering 2 10 High Level Design 1 5 08 --- --- Curriculum Outline DevOps , Cybersecurity and Academy Electives (choose any elective in recorded format) DevOps Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 1) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS DevOps Tools 1 and 2 NA 0 AWS 1 and 2 NA 0 IaC NA 0 Cybersecurity Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 2) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS Cybersecuritry 1, 2, 3 and 4 NA 0 Academy Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 3) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS Advanced DSA 1 NA 0 Advanced DSA 2 NA 0 Advanced DSA 3 NA 0 Advanced DSA 4 NA 0 09 --- --- Curriculum Outline For Intermediate Batches Core Modules DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 80) Data Analytics and Visualisation - Fundamentals 1 5 Data Analytics and Visualisation - Probability 1 5 and Stats Data Analytics and Visualisation - Python Libraries 1 5 Product Analytics 1 5 Maths for ML 5 Intro to ML and NN 5 ML: Supervised Algorithms 5 6 ML: Adv Supervised Algorithms 5 ML: Unsupervised and RecSys 5 MLOps 5 Gen Al 2 5 Note:- This is a mandatory module for the Masters Degree program. Neovarsity Project 1 10 Neural Networks 1 5 Computer Vision 1 5 Natural Language Processing 1 5 10 --- --- Curriculum Outline Exclusive Cross-Track Electives 1 & 2 (Choose for 10 credits) Exclusive Cross-Track Electives 1 (Option 1) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 10) Data Engineering 2 10 Exclusive Cross-Track Electives 2 (Option 2) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 10) High Level Design 1 5 Product Management for Software Engineers 1 5 11 --- --- Curriculum Outline DevOps , Cybersecurity and Academy Electives (choose any elective in recorded format) DevOps Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 1) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS DevOps Tools 1 and 2 NA 0 AWS 1 and 2 NA 0 IaC NA 0 Cybersecurity Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 2) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS Cybersecuritry 1, 2, 3 and 4 NA 0 Academy Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 3) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS Advanced DSA 1, 2, 3 and 4 NA 0 12 --- --- Curriculum Outline For Advanced Batches Core Modules DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 60) Maths for ML 5 5 Intro to ML and NN ML: Supervised Algorithms 5 6 ML: Adv Supervised Algorithms 5 ML: Unsupervised and RecSys 5 MLOps 5 Gen Al 2 5 Note:- This is a mandatory module for the Masters Degree program. Neovarsity Project 1 10 Neural Networks 1 5 Computer Vision 1 5 Natural Language Processing 1 5 Exclusive Recorded Electives DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 20) Advanced DSA 1, 2, 3 and 4 NA 20 13 --- --- Curriculum Outline Exclusive Cross-Track Electives 1 & 2 (Choose for 10 credits) Exclusive Cross-Track Electives 1 (Option 1) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 10) Data Engineering 2 10 Exclusive Cross-Track Electives 2 (Option 2) DURATION ECTS CREDITS Module (Months) (TOTAL CREDITS 10) High Level Design 1 5 Product Management for Software Engineers 1 5 DevOps and Cybersecurity (choose any elective in recorded format) DevOps Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 1) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS DevOps Tools 1 and 2 NA 0 AWS 1 and 2 NA 0 IaC NA 0 Cybersecurity Electives Recorded Neovarsity Exclusive (Option 2) DURATION ECTS Module (Months) CREDITS Cybersecuritry 1, 2, 3 and 4 NA 0 14 --- --- Want to take a deeper-dive into the curriculum? Click Here 15 --- --- Eligibility Criteria This is for People who Want to Leave a Mark on the World! The program is suitable for beginners who have little to no experience in web development, as well as experienced developers who want to expand their skillset. The program covers a wide range of topics including front-end development, back-end development, and database management. What you must have: Bachelor's Degree (BSc, B.Tech, any 3-4 years of graduate experience) 1 Year of Professional Experience No-prior Computer Science Experience Required 16 --- --- Eligibility & Certification Neovarsity Welcomes You... Our Masters program is diligently designed to meet the requirements of working professionals (1+ years of experience) looking to learn, upskill & grow. Youre welcome, if you are Looking to transit to Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning domain A Machine Learning Engineer who wants to scale ahead A working professional who wants to shift to product-based companies A Non-Software Professional willing to make a career in Computer Science (DS or ML) We dont expect you to have any programming experience as well take you through the concepts from scratch. However, individuals with prior programming experience are free to skip the basics and head straight to ML & AI Development. Let Your Skills Certify You! We will evaluate your skill set Our evaluation process chalks out your performance based on assignments & quizzes including both objective & subjective type questions. We will certify your skill set with a Degree Upon completion of the program, you will be awarded a Degree that industry-approves your talents & skills. Scaler Neovarsity will Skill-Certify you - a quality-assured process based on the Standards of ECTS, aligning with ECE Norms & in partnership with Woolf Higher Education Institution. 17 --- --- Know Your Instructors Learn from Industry Experts Suraaj Hasija Ex- Senior Manager, Data Science at Scaler Ex-Data Scientist II at Mastercard Guest Speaker at IIM Lucknow & Amritsar, Delhi University, VIT etc 4.6 star review 6800+ learners 8+ years rating taught of experience Shivank Agarwal Ex- Senior V.P., Data Science at Scaler Ex-Senior Software Development Manager, Microsoft Ex-Engineering Manager, Inmobi Ex-Software Development Manager, Oracle 4.8 star review 7000+ learners 14+ years rating taught of experience Manish Pansari Ex- Business Leader at Scaler Generated revenue of $400M+ as the CXO of Myntra Principal at A.T. Kearney 4.7 star review 2600+ learners 20+ years rating taught of experience 18 --- --- Know Your Instructors Avijit Roy Ex- Created a text-to-SQL query system at Akaike Applied Scientist at Microsoft System Assistant Engineer at TCS Masters from IIT Kanpur 4.6 star review 8600+ learners 6+ years rating taught of experience Nikhil Sanghi Ex- Lead Instructor for DSML, Scaler Co-founder, Stonkr Co-founder, Tablechair Bachelors & Masters from BITS Pilani 4.7 star review 6500+ learners 6+ years rating taught of experience Mohit Uniyal Ex- Lead Data Scientist and Instructor at Scaler Data Scientist & Co-Creator at Coding Minutes Mentor at TensorFlow and Google Code-in Ex-Instructor and Product Engineer at Coding Block 4.7 star review 6800+ learners 5+ years rating taught of experience 19 --- --- Know Your Mentors Meet Your Mentors Get clarity on your career path & tackle every stage of your Upskilling journey with 1:1 guidance twice a month. Our mentors will go all the way to help you with your queries, give interview insights, provide placement assistance & make sure youre on the right track. Kunal Rathod Sumedh Chandaluri Data Scientist Sr. ML Engineer With a career rooted in Data Science, He has over 5 years of experience in he has worked in companies in Data Science, Data Analytics, AI/ML, domains like enterprise products, Statistics, Deployment and media, aviation, healthcare and mentoring. consulting. Abhishek Kumar Sajjad Manal Sr. Manager Applied Scientist Data Science He has over 6 years of experience He uses his knowledge of Machine developing models using Machine Learning to solve business problems Learning/AI to achieve business at Microsoft and actively works on outcomes. independent projects as well. 20 --- --- Batch Profile The Scaler Neovarsity Batch Looks Stellar! Upskilling with experts is all well and good, but having a stellar batch makes your upskilling journey 10X more challenging & exciting. Meet your potential batchmates & brace yourself for a brighter skill-driven career. 15% Learners Work (7+ Years) Experience 20% (0-2 Years) 0-2 Years 29% (4-7Years) 2-4 Years 4-7 Years 7+ Years 36% (2-4Years) 7% Learners Industry Other Roles Background 20% Tech Lead Senior Developer Mid-senior Developer 48% Senior Tech Lead Developer Other Roles 25% Mid Senior Developer 21 --- --- Batch Profile Learners Academic Background 89.9% IITs / NITs / BITs 10.1% Others Join the versatile community of aspirational working professionals who are all set to #CreateImpact in the real world. Enrol Now Average Salary Post Scaler i.e, years of experience 17 LPA 0-2 Years 32 LPA 2-4 Years 58 LPA 4-7 Years 7+ Years 72 LPA 22 --- --- Scaler Support & Network Scaler Placement Assistance With mock interviews and resume-building sessions, well prepare you to find jobs with our placement partners or give you the assistance and confidence needed to venture into the industry to find your dream job. Our 1200+ placement partners include 23 --- --- How to Enrol Register your interest on 1 the Neovarsity website. Book a session with a counsellor. 2 (You decide the date & time.) Easy and hassle-free upgrading 3 fee payment. 4 Easy on-boarding to Master's Degree Platform. Start your upskilling journey with Neovarsity Schedule a call now 24 --- --- #CreateImpact THANK YOU WWW.SCALER.COM --- --- --- --- AI is Transforming The Tech World Artificial Intelligence is the cornerstone of the data-driven revolution, redefining the decision-making processes of organisations. Professionals with a strong foundation in DSML are in greater demand than ever. $15.7 66% Trillion by 2030 Leaders Will be the Would not hire contribution of professionals AI to the global who lack economy expertise in AI (Source: PwC) (Source: Microsoft) 71% 38% Employers Annual Growth Prefer hiring Expected from AI-skilled the AI market professionals over between 2023 & experienced ones 2030 (Source: Microsoft) (Source: Forbes) --- --- Why Learn AI with Scaler? We offer a comprehensive, industry-vetted curriculum to make you proficient in AI-powered data analysis and problem-solving. From mastering tools like Tableau to developing portfolio projects, youll gain expertise that prepares you for leadership roles. Transform Data into Impact With AI, youll become a DSML professional with skills to: Build predictive Design intelligent models that transform systems to optimise raw data into insights business operations Innovate solutions for complex problems using ML techniques --- --- xednI Learn Through Experiences 06 Curriculum Outline 07 Evolve With the Industry 08 Apply Your Skills to Business Problems 09 Training You to Reach the Top 12 Curriculum Advisors 14 Shape Your Own Journey 15 Find Your Starting Point 16 Mentors to Guide You 17 Choose How High Youll Go 18 Be Part of Our Community 19 Others on the Same Path 20 Career Transition of Our Learners 21 Why Scaler is Right for You 22 About Scaler 23 Ecosystem Designed for Learning 24 Placement Outcomes & Roles 25 Scaler Placement Assistance 26 Hear From Our Learners 27 --- --- 05 Course Summary Program at a Glance Program Name Certifications Mode of Learning Data Science with NSDC Certified 100% Live Learning Specialisation in AI Eligibility Instructors Program Duration Freshers, tech and Experts from 7-18 months non-tech professionals top companies Common Outcomes Data Analyst, Data Scientist & Machine Learning Engineer The Learning Experience 1:1 Industry Practical AI-Powered mentorship application-based Teaching Assistance learning Placement Network of AI-Powered assistance 20k+ learners Mock Interviews --- --- 06 Learn Through Experiences Curriculum Outline Evolve With the Industry Apply Your Skills to Business Problems Training You to Reach the Top Curriculum Advisors --- --- 07 Curriculum Outline Basics ( 60 lectures 20 weeks ) Tableau & SQL Python Excel Intermediate - Data Analysis and Visualisation ( 72 lectures 24 weeks ) Python Probability & Basics of Product Libraries Statistics Data Analysis Analytics Domain Analytics (Special Elective) Advanced - Machine Learning ( 72 lectures 24 weeks ) Introduction to ML Supervised ML Unsupervised Maths of ML ML and NN Algorithms Algorithms Machine Learning Time Series & MLOps Recommendation Systems Optional - Deep Learning ( 36 lectures 12 weeks ) Neural Natural Level Computer Networks Processing Vision Special Elective ( 60 lectures 20 weeks ) Portfolio ML System Generative AI Project Design Deep dive into our curriculum Know more --- --- 08 Evolve With the Industry To make sure you stay ahead of the curve, our curriculum is constantly changing with the industry and includes technology thats transforming the Data Science landscape. Generative AI ML System Design Duration: 24 lectures, 8 weeks Duration: 24 lectures, 8 weeks Objective: Objective: To adapt Gen AI to various Apply system design principles business contexts to real-world ML problems Projects: Topics covered: Build a DuoLingo-like System Design Principles language teacher Machine Learning Pipelines Create a chatbot using RAG Distributed Training Develop innovations using Model Serving & Inference LLMs High Availability & Fault Tolerance Security & Privacy Productionization --- --- 09 Apply Skills to Business Problems Domain Analytics You can get an immersive experience of working in Data Analytics by delving into real-world projects. Duration: Eligibility: Certification: 8 weeks High Performance Domain-Specific Our domain options constantly change basis the industry.* Here are some of our current trending options: E-Commerce Fintech Work on Supply Work on Customer Chain & Data Segmentation & Management Regulatory Compliance Social Media Healthcare Marketing Work on Regulatory Work on Marketing Compliance & Strategy Prediction & Healthcare Data Optimisation Management *The domain options available may change during the duration of the course based on industry trends. --- --- 10 Portfolio Projects These are some of the options for your portfolio project topic: Option 1: Finance Use ML techniques to predict insurance premiums for individuals. Skills: EDA, Hypothesis Testing, Tableau, Linear Regression, Decision Trees, Random Forest, Flask API/Streamlit Option 2: Cybersecurity Overcome the challenge of detecting evolving threats efficiently. Skills: EDA, Hypothesis Testing, ML, Tableau, Flask API/Streamlit Option 3: Sales Develop a predictive model that uses historical data to forecast sales. Skills: EDA, Time Series Analysis, Forecasting, Tableau, Flask API/ Streamlit Option 4: Non-profit Determine the possibility of project approval out of 500,000 proposals. Skills: EDA, Hypothesis Testing, Logistic Regression, Random Forests, LightGBM, XGBoost, Tableau, Flask API/Streamlit Option 5: Non-profit Effectively allocate $10 million to fight poverty in various countries. Skills: EDA, Hypothesis Testing, Kmeans Clustering, Tableau, Flask API/Streamlit --- --- 11 Business Case Studies Business Case Studies will be part of major modules in the program Module: Data Analysis Module: SQL & Visualisation Analyse a dataset comprising Analyse customer purchase 100,000 orders behaviour and patterns Skills: Data importing, Skills: CLT and bootstrapping merging, EDA, time series analysis & complex querying Module: Data Analysis & Module: Machine Learning Visualisation - Python Libraries Gain insights into the factors that Gain insights into the factors that influence viewers' preferences influence viewers' preferences Skills: Data exploration, Skills: Data exploration, preprocessing, and visualisation preprocessing, and visualisation Module: Neural Networks Module: Generative AI Make accurate delivery time Create product recommendation estimates models based on customer data Skills: Data exploration, Skills: Text generation, prompt preprocessing & visualisation engineering & fine-tuning LLMs --- --- 12 Training You to Reach the Top Suraaj Hasija Ex- Senior Manager, Data Science at Scaler Ex-Data Scientist II at Mastercard Guest Speaker at IIM Lucknow & Amritsar, Delhi University, VIT etc 4.6 star review 6800+ learners 8+ years rating taught of experience Shivank Agarwal Ex- Senior V.P., Data Science at Scaler Ex-Senior Software Development Manager, Microsoft Ex-Engineering Manager, Inmobi Ex-Software Development Manager, Oracle 4.8 star review 7000+ learners 14+ years rating taught of experience Manish Pansari Ex- Business Leader at Scaler Generated revenue of $400M+ as the CXO of Myntra Principal at A.T. Kearney 4.7 star review 2600+ learners 20+ years rating taught of experience --- --- 13 Avijit Roy Ex- Created a text-to-SQL query system at Akaike Applied Scientist at Microsoft System Assistant Engineer at TCS Masters from IIT Kanpur 4.6 star review 8600+ learners 6+ years rating taught of experience Nikhil Sanghi Ex- Lead Instructor for DSML, Scaler Co-founder, Stonkr Co-founder, Tablechair Bachelors & Masters from BITS Pilani 4.7 star review 6500+ learners 6+ years rating taught of experience Mohit Uniyal Ex- Lead Data Scientist and Instructor at Scaler Data Scientist & Co-Creator at Coding Minutes Mentor at TensorFlow and Google Code-in Ex-Instructor and Product Engineer at Coding Block 4.7 star review 6800+ learners 5+ years rating taught of experience --- --- 14 Curriculum Advisors Srikanth Varma Ex-  Senior ML Scientist, Amazon & Palo Alto  Research Engineer, Yahoo! Labs  Masters from IISc Bangalore, Gate 2007 (AIR 2)  13+ years of experience in AI and Machine Learning Anshuman Singh Co-founder,  Worked with Mark Zuckerberg and led the team that built FB Messenger  Was responsible for setting up Facebooks office outside the US  Represented India in the ICPC world finals twice Abhimanyu Saxena Co-founder,  Co-founder, InterviewBit  Programmer, Progress Software  Software Architect at one of the fastest-growing unicorns, Fab.com --- --- 15 Shape Your Own Journey Find Your Starting Point Mentors To Guide You Choose How High Youll Go Be Part of Our Community Others on the Same Path Career Transition of Our Learners --- --- 16 Find Your Starting Point You can start the program at various stages based on your skills and also stop at the level that is right for you. Your starting point based on your performance in the Batch Allocation Test (Scaler Assessment Test) Advanced 2+ yrs of coding experience Intermediate 7-10 month journey 0-2 yrs of coding experience Beginner 11-16 month journey Non-coders 15-18 month journey --- --- 17 Mentors to Guide You Kunal Rathod Sumedh Chandaluri Data Scientist Sr. ML Engineer With a career rooted in Data Science, He has over 5 years of experience in he has worked in companies in Data Science, Data Analytics, AI/ML, domains like enterprise products, Statistics, Deployment and media, aviation, healthcare and mentoring. consulting. Abhishek Kumar Sajjad Manal Sr. Manager Applied Scientist Data Science He has over 6 years of experience He uses his knowledge of Machine developing models using Machine Learning to solve business problems Learning/AI to achieve business at Microsoft and actively works on outcomes. independent projects as well. --- --- 18 Choose How High Youll Go At various points in the program, youll be eligible to apply for roles depending on the curriculum blocks you complete. 4 Complete Block Optional-Natural Language Processing Opportunities 3 Complete Block NLP Engineer Chatbot Developer Optional-Computer Data Scientist (NLP) Vision ML Engineer (NLP) Opportunities 2 Complete Block Computer Vision Eng. Machine Learning Robotics Engineer Deep Learning Eng. Opportunities Research Scientist ML Engineer 1 Complete Block ML Scientist Data Analysis & Data Scientist Visualisation AI Engineer Opportunities AI Researcher Data Analyst Predictive Modeler BI Analyst Quantitative Analyst Domain Analyst Research Analyst Risk Analyst Please note that completing a block includes clearing the required evaluation for each module. --- --- 19 Be Part of Our Community The best part of any learning ecosystem is your peer group and alumni, who can provide insights, guidance and advice even after you graduate from Scaler. Be part of a network of Learn collaboratively with 20k+ learners and your peers in a dynamic alumni learning environment Access a network of Join Scaler City Clubs for alumni for insights and offline events, workshops, mentorship opportunities and networking --- --- 20 Others on the Same Path 28% Our learners have 0-1 years 23% 4-7 years a wide range of work experience 14% 35% 7+ years 1-4 years 40% Non-Tech And come 10% Non-IT Engineerng from different 42% backgrounds 8% Data IT Engineering Science --- --- 21 Career Transition of Our Learners Data Scientist Lead Data Scientist Member of Technical Staff ML Engineer Business Intelligence Analyst Sr. Data Engineer Systems Engineer Data Scientist Data Scientist Lead Data Scientist Sr. Analyst Data Scientist Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 22 Why Scaler is Right for You About Scaler Ecosystem Designed for Learning Placement Outcomes & Roles Scaler Placement Assistance Hear From Our Learners --- --- 23 About Scaler Transforming Careers Since 2019 15k+ satisfied Top 1% industry 89.5% success learners instructors rate Programs We Offer Online Offline Academy (Software Development) Scaler School of Technology Data Science Scaler School of Business DevOps Neovarsity (Masters Degree) Backed by the Best in the Industry Kunal Shah Deepinder Goel Binny Bansal Founder, Co-founder, Co-Founder, Rajan Anandan Vijay Shekhar Sharma MD, MD, --- --- 24 Ecosystem Designed for Learning Access to Class Tests will be Recordings for up conducted after every to 6 months after important module in course completion your curriculum Reset Course Teaching Option to help you Assistants who will restart as and when keep you on track to you need it achieve your goals Pause & Resume from Doubt-solving sessions the nearest milestone to work on your problems and get credit back after and learn from the resuming the course mistakes of your peers AI-enabled Resume Mock Interviews with Builder to help you professionals in the make it through industry to build your resume screenings at confidence top companies --- --- 25 PPllaacceemmeenntt OOuuttccoommeess && RRoolleess 22% 9% 9% Data Scientist ML Engineer Consultant Avg. CTC Avg. CTC Avg. CTC  20,28,226  22,21,667  41,43,846 3% 2% 1% Mid-senior Leadership Sr. ML Engineer Developer Avg. CTC Avg. CTC Avg. CTC  39,66,667  35,00,000  24,75,000 18% 12% 12% Sr. Developer Manager Tech Lead Avg. CTC Avg. CTC Avg. CTC  24,06,200  22,41,563  32,03,125 12%Sr. Data Avg. CTC Scientist  45,21,877 Note -The data set includes learners who have completed their mandatory modules and have completed a period of 6 months post that, as of Jan 1, 2024. -Past results do not guarantee future placements. -The numbers represented here are aggregate numbers for the batch, and are in no way a guarantee of any future salary. Salaries are a function of skills, background, and market conditions. Assessed by --- --- 26 Scaler Placement Assistance With mock interviews and resume-building sessions, well prepare you to find jobs with our placement partners or give you the assistance and confidence needed to venture into the industry to find your dream job. Our 900+ placement partners include --- --- 0275 Hear From Our Learners Avijit Swain Sunshodan Makkar It just feels like yesterday that I Id like to thank the Scaler joined Scaler's Data Science and teamgreat instructors like Mohit Machine Learning Program. I do not Uniyal and Scalers teaching even remember how the past few assistants made my transition into months just flew by. The last 1 year the DSML field very smooth. While at Scaler has literally altered the Data Analytics wasn't my initial area course of my life. From being of interest, attending classes and completely directionless and immersing myself in learning allowed hopeless to regaining my me to discover a genuine interest and confidence, this has been an passion for it. unbelievable turnaround for me. Mayank Khandelwal The best way to learn something is by diving straight into the deep end and broadening your horizons. For that, I would like to specifically thank Srikanth Varma Chekuri. Having an in-depth understanding of the various projects we can targetas a fresher or an experienced professional - was super exciting to learn about. Hear More --- --- Ready to Start Your Data Science Journey? Apply Now --- --- --- --- Software is eating the world. New-age tech is making our lives easy, but it also comes with its set of complications. To cope with it, we must equip future generations with relevant skills. Capped by an outdated curriculum, 90% of tech graduates today arent equipped with basic skills like problem-solving and communication, let alone new-age skills like Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Data Engineering, etc. We at Scaler firmly believe that skills matter. Over the past 8 years, weve been working tirelessly to build the top 1% of software engineers. And weve achieved stellar success  40,000+ learners have paved their way to top product companies. In 2021, Amazon hired more people from Scaler than all the IITs combined. With the launch of Scaler School of Technology, we can do this at the graduate level. ANSHUMAN SINGH Co-Founder, Scaler (A 6000 Crore Company) Ex-Tech Lead, FB Messenger Set up Facebooks office, London AIR-5, Maths Olympiad Cracked multiple IITs, joined IIIT - Hyderabad, represented India at the Finals of Coding Olympics --- --- Built for the Industry, by the Industry  our vision with this 4-year residential programme is to build the Ivy League for CS that propels the tech industry forward via a diverse community that values collaboration and thrives on collective achievements. Even NITI AAYOGs Former CEO Amitabh Kant echoed our vision. Today, where even top-tier institutes like IITs are running old syllabi, Scaler does the job of producing high-quality Engineers. Amitabh Kant, Ex-CEO, NITI Aayog, Govt. of India Out of 54,000+ applicants, only 191 students made it through the 3.8% selection rate to our first Batch of 2023 - 2027. So far, they have excelled in academic endeavours  hackathons and ICPC regionals; and got relevant industry exposure  sessions by industry veterans. All this is a testament to a solid learning ecosystem. From my experience of building Facebook Messenger, setting up Facebooks office in London, and interviewing hundreds of candidates, I can confidently vouch that this programme is the first-of-its-kind in the country to be implemented at the graduate level. --- --- Index The Future of Tech Learning 05 Scaler Success Record 06 Introduction to Scaler School of Technology 08 6 Pillars of Holistic Education 09 First Batch in a Snapshot 10 4-Year UG Programme in CS 11 SST vs Traditional Education 12 Curriculum Outline 15 Teaching and Guidance 21 Placements at Scaler School of Technology 27 Learn by Doing Pedagogy 29 Life at Scaler School of Technology 33 Eligibility, Admissions and Fee Structure 42 Scholarships and Evaluation Criteria 46 Testimonials 48 --- --- Build Future Tech Leaders with an Industry-ready Approach to Computer Science The next 10 years will see 9 crore new jobs for software engineers* alone. Every year 10 lakh students apply for CS at top IITs, but only 500 seats are available. Implying only 0.05% of applicants get access to these seats. Highly skilled software engineers are in very high demand and will continue to be. Unfortunately, the existing curriculum is not enough to get a job, let alone build a career. We need a transformative approach  REVISIT. REVAMP. REVOLUTIONISE. to produce sought-after software engineers with a secure future. 16 lakh Engineers Graduate Each Year of which, only 16% find a job, out of those, 80% are CSE jobs but only 2% earn more than 8 LPA *Estimates from Microsofts 2020 white paper on Digitization Capacity of the World Economy. 05 --- --- Scaling Success Showcasing Brilliance with Every Aspect Our Alumni Work at* & 1200 more Scalers proven track record 900 CR 3700+ 1.7 CR Salary created for Hired more Scaler Scaler Learners Highest salary, Scaler graduates graduates than all placed at top 21.6 LPA average in the last 4 yrs the IITs combined tech companies salary of learners in 2021 *Verified by , the data is explicitly from Scalers working professional course Mentored and Guided by Indias Top Tech Tycoons Binny Bansal Deepinder Goyal Bhavin Turakhia Co-Founder, Co-Founder, CEO, Kunal Shah Amrish Rau Rajan Anandan Co-Founder, CEO, Ex-VP SEA, and 100+ Industry Veterans 06 --- --- 07 --- --- Introducing Scaler School of Technology The first-of-its-kind 4-year Programme in Computer Science that upholds the skills with degree culture. To help break away from the rat race that is conventional education and forge a balance between the evolving and the constant. 4 Years Program A mandatory 1-year internship Fully Residential Campus in the Silicon Valley of India  Bangalore Selective Admissions A holistic selection process that identifies the top 2% of outstanding students Eligibility Should be  20 years as of July24 & have studied mathematics in class XII 0801 --- --- Preparing for the Real-world 6 Pillars of Holistic Education Mandatory Experts Instructors 100% Placement 1-year tech built FB Messenger, Assistance 1200+ Internship Uber, Hotstar, etc. placement partners 1:1 Mentorship Learn by Building to nurture 50+ real-world brilliance products Future-proof Curriculum designed by tech experts 09 --- --- Batch 2023 - 2027 in a Snapshot! As we aim to build the top 1% of Software Engineers & Data Scientists, heres a glimpse of our first batch. Selection Funnel: 5,000+ 191 Students 3.8% Acceptance NSET Takers selected rate Students Academic Excellence 60+ students held offers from top Indian Institutes -IITs/NITs/IIITs /BITS/IISC 6 Students held offers from international universities like Waterloo & Purdue 98.9% Highest class XII score with an average score of 85% and 91% in class XII and X respectively A Dynamic Mix All-rounders who did well in academics 35% (>90% in XII) & are passionate about learning CS Cracked colleges like IITs/NITs/IIITs/BITS/IISc 30% but chose SST for CS education Students who have already built software 28% and some received achievements in the field Chose SST over offers from global 04% universities like Purdue & Waterloo Dropped out of 1st Year B.Tech at traditional 03% colleges and joined SST 10 --- --- Empowering students with a 4-Year Undergraduate Programme in CS Scaler School of Technologys fully offline programme is built and delivered by experts from top tech companies. Our students get access to the latest curriculum taught by industry experts with practical experience and a mandatory 1-year tech internship, which will ensure their success in the field of Computer Science. Additionally, to help them unlock diverse career options. They are advised to pursue in parallel, a Bachelors degree in CS from BITS Pilani offered on Coursera and Masters degree from Woolf, which run independently from our programme. By doing this, our graduates will get the best of both worlds together and will be able to explore lucrative opportunities at worlds leading tech companies. These also help with work visa applications and serve as qualifications for exams like CAT, Civil Services, GRE, and GMAT for those who wish to pursue further studies within India or abroad. 11 --- --- B.Sc. in Computer Science by BITS Pilani 3-Year M.Sc. in Computer Science by Woolf University ** 1-Year *This online degree programme runs independently and SST students can pursue this degree concurrently with the Scaler School of Technology's residential undergraduate programme. It's important to note that the BITS Pilani degree is awarded separately, and admission to the degree programme is solely at the discretion of BITS Pilani. Regulation 22 of the UGC (Open and Distance Learning Programmes and Online Programmes), Regulations 2020, all degrees awarded through Open and Distance Learning mode and/or Online mode by Indian Higher Educational Institutions, recognised by UGC, are treated as equivalent to the corresponding awards of the degrees/diplomas offered through conventional mode. Students will have to complete all requirements as set by BITS Pilani for the grant of the degree in the BITS Degree Programme. **This degree is endorsed by the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS), a widely recognised accreditation system accepted by universities & organisations in the US, Europe, Canada, and numerous other countries, however, Woolf being a foreign institute is not recognised by UGC/AICTE. 12 --- --- Unlock success with The SST Advantage Scaler School Traditional of Technology Education Real-world, ready for Curriculum Outdated 2027 and beyond Worked at Google, Meta, No industry Instructors experience Microsoft & tech companies Code 50+ apps and Theoretical Assignments written papers products 1:1 sessions with No dedicated Mentorship a guidance industry experts 1-year compulsory No industry Internship exposure internship Extra training Employability Industry ready required Level of a Level of a Graduation Junior SDE Senior SDE 13 --- --- 14 --- --- Curriculum That Ensures Outcomes We developed a comprehensive curriculum based on detailed discussions with the top minds from the industry, while ensuring we do not compromise our academic standards. Our curriculum is crafted to sow strong foundational concepts of Computer Science, gradually elevating students to realise industrys expectations. Learn Initial 2 Yrs Fundamentals of DSA, Fullstack, Shell, Phase I Frontend & work on your soft skills Experience Next 1 Yr A 1-year internship at a top tech company & Phase II receive a pre-placement offer Specialise Final 1 Yrs In high demand fields like AI/ ML/Algo Trading Phase III & bag placement offers from tech giants 15 --- --- Phase - I Kick-start your career with core software development skills Duration 24 Months Become a Competitive Programmer Skills you will learn: Java Basics | Basic Programming Constructs Evaluating Time and Space Complexity | Classes and Objects | Discrete Mathematics | Basic Optimisation Techniques | Recursion | Shell Scripting Become a Competitive Programmer Skills you will learn: Sorting and Searching Algorithms | Data Structures: Linked Lists, Stacks and Queues, Binary Trees, Heaps and Tries | Greedy Algorithms | Backtracking and Dynamic Programming | Maths for Programmers | Graph Theory Build an online Excel Sheet with 1M+ Rows Skills you will learn: HTML/CSS | Inner-workings of the Internet | Browser architecture | JavaScript | DOM | Lazy Load | Website Optimisation Techniques | React Build an eCommerce Website Skills you will learn: Databases | SQL | Schema Design | NoSQL and NoSQL Schema Design (architecture not covered) | Indexing | 16 --- --- MVC frameworks | Get started with Spring Boot and Cloud | Integrate CDNs | Payment Gateway Integration Build a Strong Foundation for Data Science & Machine Learning Skills you will learn: Get started with Python | Linear Algebra basics for Data Science | Probability Theory and Statistics | Statistical Analysis and Inference | Hypothesis Testing | Exploratory Data Analysis Techniques | Data Manipulation with Pandas | Numerical Computing with NumPy Master Product Roadmaps and Metrics Skills you will learn: OKR Framework | Metrics for Acquisition, Activation, Engagement, Retention, Monetisation | Hands-on with Mixpanel/Google Analytics | User research and need discovery/validation | Case studies Analyse Data to Derive Business Decisions Skills you will learn: SQL | NumPy, Pandas, Matplot, Seaborn | Web Scraping | Probability and Statistics | Case studies Micro MBA - Transformative Business Skills for Future Tech Leaders Skills you will learn: Communication Basics | Content Creation | Business Problem-Solving | Product Problem- Solving | Interview Preparation 17 --- --- Phase - II Gain industry experience as an intern Duration 12 Months Pre-internship: Learn Your Company's Tech Stack, Unit Testing, and Documentation Skills you will learn: Build a small get-started project on the tech stack of the company you'll intern at | Art of writing unit tests | How to write documentation | Art of handling large codebases | Learn to Debug Tools 12-month Internship with Regular 1:1 Mentorship Support you will receive: Monthly/bi-weekly check-ins from a personal mentor | Correction on hard and soft skills as needed | Helping material to thrive as an intern 18 --- --- Phase - III Choose up to 2 specialisations to get 10 steps ahead of any graduate in the country Duration 12 Months Learn Project Management Skills you will learn: Project timeline estimation | Tooling like Gantt Charts | Stakeholder Management basics Choose any 2 Specialisations MAANG Track Skills you will learn: Number Theory | Probability and Statistics - 2 | Advance DSA | Advance Graph Theory Engineering Leadership Track Skills you will learn: Low-Level Design and Design Patterns | System Design of large-scale products with case studies | Handle large Data Streams on Cloud | VoIP - Build your own Zoom/Google Meet | Cybersecurity Basics | Data Engineering: Create Data Lakes | Spark/Map Reduce Jobs | Design apple like Facebook Messenger 19 --- --- Algo Trading Track Skills you will learn: System Programming using C/C++ | Multi-threading and Concurrent Programming - 2 | Advance DSA | Probability and Statistics - 2 | Linear Algebra | Stocks and Derivatives - 101 | Quant Research Methods AI/ML Track Skills you will learn: Probability and Statistics - 2 | Linear Algebra | Classical ML - Supervised Learning | Classical ML - Unsupervised Learning | Computer Vision | NLP | Build Recommendation Engine | Develop a voice-activated assistant similar to Siri/Alex | Self-Driving Car Software 20 --- --- Our Teaching Army Wholl Go Above & Beyond Students will learn from those who are breaking new ground, have developed scalable systems and products, nurtured unicorns and companies worth $10 billion, and built a legacy in the tech industry. Anshuman Singh Ex- 21 --- --- Meet Our Expert Instructors Regular classes by industry experts who have built real-world products. Gain invaluable insights directly from the whos who of the tech world. Kshitij Naman Mishra Bhalla Ex- Ex- Shivank Pragy Agrawal Agarwal Ex- Anshuman Ex- Singh Ex- Built Facebook Messenger Dr. Srishty Deepak Gajbhiye Kasera Doctrate in Philosophy, Ex- Career Development Coach 100+ Tech Experts as Instructors 22 --- --- Meet Our Mentors Expert Techies To help students overcome the uphill battles of college with confidence our mentors who are industry techies provide regular 1:1 mentorship that offers end-to-end clarity. This helps our students embark on a transformative voyage of growth and resilience. Yash Vardhan Nishant Raizada Prakash SWE Sr. Software Engineer Divya Vinod Karia Kumar Software Engineer Software Engineer and 100+ Techies 23 --- --- Coming from a small town with no idea about computers to becoming a CTO leading 200 engineers, my journey resonates with SSTs vision to empower individuals with relevant skills and build future tech leaders, regardless of their background. Subhas Choudhary Co-Founder & CTO, Dukaan Institutions like SST play a crucial role in shaping the future through quality education that meets real-world needs. I'm glad that I could take time out to be here. Bhavin Turakhia, CEO, Zeta 24 --- --- Meet Our Super Mentors Top Industry CTOs & Leaders To fuel students learning and pour inspiration we hold quarterly sessions with top CTOs who have built apps like Zomato, Uber, Amazon Fresh, and more. Rajan Anandan Apurva Dalal Jacob Singh Ajey Gore Ex-VP SEA Ex-Engineering Leader Ex-CTO Operating Partner Tech Batch Success Managers Our In-house Residential Support From resolving everyday college problems to motivating students to step out of their comfort zone, our in-house residential support  Batch Success Managers will go the extra mile. 25 --- --- SST's Management Visionary, Efficient, & Driven Towards Excellence Who have supported legendary companies like Apple, Google, and others that are now trillion-dollar companies. Abhimanyu Saxena Bhavik Rathod Saurabh Saxena Co-founder, Scaler President, SST COO, Scaler & SST Ex-Fab.com Built Uber India Founding Team, Scaler Manmeet Singh Akali Manish Pansari Yash Dandavate Programme Director, SST Sr. VP Data Science, Head - Admissions & Strategy, SST Ex- Founder, Klarity Scaler | Led Ops Team, Myntra London Business School | IIM-C Alum Amar Srivastava Tushar Bisht VP & Head of Product, Scaler CTO, Scaler IIT- Delhi Alum Ex-Facebook 26 --- --- Placement Assistance at Scaler School of Technology 1200+ Career Partners Giving learners the choice of a stellar line-up to start their career! 27 --- --- 100% Placement Assistance to help learners land offers from top tech companies, we provide dedicated career support 100+ Career Specialists Career Specialists to ensure personal attention for CV building and interview preparation tips 30K+ Scaler Community to network and connect and 1200+ companies 28 --- --- Learn by Doing Pedagogy The curriculum wont be impactful without innovative teaching methods. To do justice to that, we ensure students Learn by Doing. 29 --- --- The Scaler Way to Get Your Hands Dirty To ensure students stay at the forefront of all skills tech we conduct various hackathons, workshops, and events that prepares them for the real-world. Hackathons Brainstorm & collaboration with our career partners & brace for ICPC, GSoC, & more Integrated Lab Sessions Integrated lab sessions post every lesson to ensure every class has hands-on components Gamified Learning Platform Real-time gamified tracker to keep track of their progress Amod Bhavin Malviya Turakhia Subhas Choudhary Fireside Expert sessions from Industry Chats Leaders & Top CTOs to get first-hand industry insights 30 --- --- Student-led Projects Within a few months into the programme, our students demonstrated exceptional skill development with ground breaking projects. Already built in 1st 6 months Image Editor A versatile tool designed to enhance & manipulate images, allowing users to adjust colours, apply filters, & add creative elements to achieve desired visual effects. Seating & Attendance App This user-friendly interface is designed to organise seating arrangements with interactive seating charts and real-time attendance updates. Web Scraper To navigate web pages, collect information  text, images, or links, and enable users to gather data efficiently for analysis, research, etc. 31 --- --- Glimpse of upcoming Student-led Projects Web Server that can handle 100k+ concurrent requests Online Excel Sheet with 1M rows Fully functional e-commerce website (with payment integrations) Siri/Alexa like apps that take commands in natural languages like English Recommendation system for e-commerce website Google Meet like video conferencing tool Self-driving car software 32 --- --- Life at Scaler School of Technology A sneak peek into how our students learn, build, and gain real-world knowledge with in-house 24/7 residential support and access to world-class facilities. 33 --- --- --- --- Macro Campus In Bangalore  Indias Silicon Valley Situated in the vicinity of an IT Hub, the campus offers students proximity to tech giants and techies who are creating impact in the real world. Designed to enhance productivity with easy access to advanced software tools, technologies & high-speed WiFi to provide a hassle-free learning experience. 35 --- --- Micro Campus Annex Hostel Home Away from Home From world-class facilities to essential amenities, the campuses provide students with unparalleled opportunities to succeed in the tech world. 36 --- --- Facilities Healthy food options at the cafeteria, reading room, laundry services, housekeeping, high-speed WiFi, and tie-up with a medical centre to ensure comfort and convenience go hand in hand. Safety & Security Secured and separate residential spaces for girls and boys, guarded by full-time security officials, with security cameras. Support - A Call Away In case the students need any academic or personal assistance, the residential faculty and Batch Success Managers are available for 24/7 guidance. Additionally to look after the well-being and mental health of our students we have partnered with Lissun. 37 --- --- The Innovation Lab Ideate. Iterate. Innovate. 38 --- --- To foster deep-tech start-ups and solve impactful problems, SSTs Innovation Lab is a dedicated space where students get to work on ground-breaking ideas and projects that can impact society. Students also get the opportunity to receive funding from top investors like Sequoia and Lightrock, giving them a platform to enable their entrepreneurial pursuits. Industry leaders, top CTOs & CEOs from MAANG-like companies withprofound domain knowledge, and Scalers in-house engineering experts guide and mentor students by providing real-world exposure right from their initial days. Under their guidance, our 1st year students are collaborating on a transformative project with Bhashini, the Government of Indias AI-powered, multi-lingual, translation platform to create a tool that aims at removing language barriers between Indian languages. 39 --- --- Student-led Clubs Our learning isnt just limited to classrooms. Our students have access to all opportunities essential to become a well-rounded and high-functioning individual. We have several activities and clubs for them to participate in like  Competitive Programming Club Mirroring SSTs commitment to hands-on learning, the club is a preparation doorway to competitive programming and hackathons. Members of the club are some of the youngest qualifiers of ICPC - The Olympics of Coding. Open Source Club Embedding open-source principles, the club promotes collaborative development by encouraging students to grow as developers. Members of the club partake in initiatives like Google Summer of Code (GSoC) and more. 40 --- --- Media Entrepreneurship Club Club Showcasing our vibrant campus Reflecting SST's ethos of life and engagement with industry fostering industry culture, leaders, the club enhances this club provides a intangible skills  public speaking, foundational understanding storytelling, content creation, and of startups, business presentation in the ever-evolving strategies, and innovation by digital landscape. Members of the encouraging students to club play a vital role by promptly develop and pitch business resolving admission queries online. ideas. Sports Ted Club Talk Tribe Resonating SSTs emphasis on a Cultivating a culture of growth, balanced lifestyle, the club the Ted Talk Tribe encourages promotes physical well-being by students to innovate by organising sports tournaments  organising events and basketball, tennis, football, workshops with top industry cricket, and badminton. leaders. Cultural Club Students tap into their hidden Heres a talents and stay culturally sneak peek aware via various competitions  dance, music, theatre, etc. Click here to check it out now! --- --- Eligibility and Admissions We look forward to having those who aspire to become the top 1% of Software Engineers & Data Science professionals. 42 --- --- Academics Candidates should be  20 years of age as of July24, must have studied Mathematics in XII. Their X & XII scores (expected/final) from recognised boards  CBSE, ISC, IB, IGCSE or equivalent. Entrance Test - NSET The online proctored 120-minute test evaluates skills required for CS and related fields in addition to a students mindset to achieve excellence. Profile Evaluation Upon clearing Scaler NSET, candidates profile evaluation is done to assess interests based on which a success-driven pathway is created. It is advised to apply as early as possible, as more scholarships are offered in earlier rounds. Dates & Deadlines Keep an eye on our website, for important updates. NSET Syllabus Scalers National Scholarship & Entrance Test is divided into 3 sections: Mathematics Download prep-kit Logical Reasoning CLICK HERE Learning Ability 43 --- --- Application Process Our application process chalks out performance based on grades & aptitude including both objective & subjective type questions. Fill out the Application Form 01 Create your profile with your details, academic performance & eligibility details for scholarships Block A Slot For Scaler (NSET) 02 Select a suitable slot for the entrance test. The application fee for intake 1 is INR 1,000 Take Scaler NSET 03 Applicants will be shortlisted solely based on test scores. Personal Interview Round 04 Those shortlisted, you will be invited for a 1:1 Interview to assess their motivation & goals Admission & Scholarship Results 05 The team will get back with a final decision within 30 days or less Note: To ensure a fair selection the test will be conducted online using a strict AI-based proctoring software that monitors the candidates desktop activity, webcam video, and audio. 44 --- --- Fee Structure Year Admission Fees Tuition Fee* Hostel & Mess Fees (Non-Refundable) Year 1 50000/- 1,99,666/- 1,43,000/- Onwards Year 2 - 3,99,666/- 163,000/- Onwards Year 3 - 3,99,666/- Optional- Internship Year 4 - 3,34,000/- 1,87,000/- Onwards * Hostel & Mess Fees is on a triple sharing basis. For additional details and options for double sharing, please discuss with your admission counsellor once you secure an offer Please note that while we strive to keep our course fees affordable, they may be subject to revision in the future due to factors such as changes in market conditions, inflation, or regulatory requirements. BITS Pilani Tuition Fee** Year Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Tuition 1,04,334/- 1,04,334/- 1,04,334/- fee ** BSc. Computer Science by BITS Pilani For students enrolling in this degree by BITS Pilani, will have to pay this directly to them as per their schedulen Details of the BITS Course Fees can be found 45 --- --- Scholarships & Evaluation Criteria We believe financial limitations should not hinder one's academic pursuits. To that end, we offer scholarships ranging from 10% to 100% of the tuition fee, based on the students academic profile. All scholarships will be awarded by the Scaler Impact Foundation; supported by industry stalwarts like Vijay Shekhar Sharma (Founder & CEO, Paytm) and Prasanna Sankar (Co-Founder, Rippling). 46 --- --- Scholarships we offer: Brightest Minds Scholarship This scholarship recognises and rewards candidates with exceptional academic achievements in competitive exams. Eligibility: With exceptional academic performance in tests such as the JEE, CBSE exam, KVPY, NTSE, etc. Women in Tech Scholarship To support and encourage talented female students who have a passion for coding and a desire to pursue a career in technology. Eligibility: Exceptional women candidates who can demonstrate their affinity for coding through tech competitions, events, or more. Evaluation Criteria: Academic achievements (10th / 12th%) Achievements in JEE or equivalent competitive exams or Scaler NSET score Extracurricular projects and contributions (Technical/Non-Technical/Leadership roles) Familys financial profile Please note that the scholarship decisions are rule-based to keep it fair for all applicants and at the sole discretion of Scaler Impact Foundation and Scholarship sponsors. These decisions are final and will not be revisited. 47 --- --- Testimonials Dont take our word for it, take theirs! Ishan Sarma SDE I, Perhaps the biggest challenge in my journey was to find the right place that would give structure to my learning. Scaler's course really helped in a way my college couldnt. Vinayak G Bhat SWE, Scaler gave me a community of thousands of people coming together to work together towards a common goal. The community-focused learning & mentorship really pushed me to become a more confident version of myself! Paawanjot Kaur Student at SST I have never experienced such proximity with instructors and teaching assistants as I do at SST. Their steady guidance and availability push me to broaden my horizons.  Yash Arya Student at SST In just 5 months, SST has improved my learning curve drastically. Regular mentorship has helped me with projects, & have attended sessions with big personalities like Mohak Mangal and Bhavin Turakhia. Aman Yadav Student at SST My quest for the perfect fit led me to SST. Their industry -vetted curriculum was like a siren song that brought me south, and in just 6 months, I aced Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Python. Hands down the best decision ever. 48 --- --- Connect with our students CLICK HERE 49 --- --- --- OCR from --- _ in Computer Science (a) SCALER | 4-Year UG Programme SUIDERCOR School of Technology Building Brilliance Graduate with future-proof skills --- OCR from --- Software is eating the world. New-age tech is making our lives easy, but it also comes with its set of complications. To cope with it, we must equip future generations with relevant skills. Capped by an outdated curriculum, 90% of tech graduates today aren't equipped with basic skills like problem-solving and communication, let alone new-age skills like Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Data Engineering, etc. We at Scaler firmly believe that skills matter. Over the past 8 years, we've been working tirelessly to build the top 1% of software engineers. And we've achieved stellar success - 40,000+ Learners have paved their way to top product companies. In 2021, Amazon hired more people from Scaler than all the IITs combined. With the Launch of Scaler School of Technology, we can do this at the graduate level. ANSHUMAN SINGH Co-Founder, Scaler (A 6000 Crore Company) Ex-Tech Lead, FB Messenger Set up Facebook's office, London AIR-5, Maths Olympiad Cracked multiple IITs, joined IIIT - Hyderabad, represented India at the Finals of Coding Olympics --- OCR from --- Built for the Industry, by the Industry  our vision with this 4-year residential programme is to build the Ivy League for CS that propels the tech industry forward via a diverse community that values collaboration and thrives on collective achievements. Even NITI AAYOG's Former CEO Amitabh Kant echoed our vision. Today, where even top-tier institutes like IITs are running old syllabi, Scaler does the job of producing high-quality Engineers. Amitabh Kant, Ex-CEO, NITI Aayog, Govt. of India Out of 54,000+ applicants, only 191 students made it through the 3.8% selection rate to our first Batch of 2023 - 2027. So far, they have excelled in academic endeavours  hackathons and ICPC regionals; and got relevant industry exposure  sessions by industry veterans. All this is a testament to a solid learning ecosystem. From my experience of building Facebook Messenger, setting up Facebook's office in London, and interviewing hundreds of candidates, | can confidently vouch that this programme is the first-of-its-kind in the country to be implemented at the graduate level. ayo --- OCR from --- Index The Future of Tech Learning Scaler Success Record Introduction to Scaler School of Technology 6 Pillars of Holistic Education First Batch in a Snapshot 4-Year UG Programme in CS SST vs Traditional Education Curriculum Outline Teaching and Guidance Placements at Scaler School of Technology Learn by Doing Pedagogy Life at Scaler School of Technology Eligibility, Admissions and Fee Structure Scholarships and Evaluation Criteria Testimonials 05 06 08 09 10 21 27 29 33 42 46 48 --- OCR from --- Build Future Tech Leaders with an Industry-ready Approach to Computer Science The next 10 years will see 9 crore new jobs for software engineers* alone. Every year 10 lakh students apply for CS at top IITs, but only 500 seats are available. Implying only 0.05% of applicants get access to these seats. Highly skilled software engineers are in very high demand and will continue to be. Unfortunately, the existing curriculum is not enough to get a job, let alone build a career. We need a transformative approach  REVISIT. REVAMP. REVOLUTIONISE. to produce sought-after software engineers with a secure future. moe 16 lakh : Engineers Graduate YX : Each Year of which, only y | 16% find a job, 4 \ but only 2% earn more than 8 LPA out of those, 80% are CSE jobs 05 --- OCR from --- Scaling Success Showcasing Brilliance with Every Aspect Our Alumni Work at* Google amazon TaN adone P PayPal SE Microsoft @ TARGET Scalers proven track record T900CR amazon 3700+ = %1.7CR Salary created for : Hired more Scaler Scaler Learners : Highest salary, Scaler graduates : graduates than all placed at top : 21.6 LPA average in the last 4 yrs : the IITs combined tech companies : salary of learners : in 2021 : *Verified by KPMG , the data is explicitly from Scalers working professional course Mentored and Guided by Indias Top Tech Tycoons  @ ~  Binny Bansal Deepinder Goyal Bhavin Turakhia Co-Founder, Flipkart B Co-Founder, zomato cEo, zeta Kunal Shah Amrish Rau Rajan Anandan Co-Founder, [GJ CRED CEO, 31 Pine Labs Ex-VP SEA, Google and 100+ Industry Veterans 06 --- OCR from --- --- OCR from --- Introducing Scaler School of Technology The first-of-its-kind 4-year Programme in Computer Science that upholds the skills with degree culture. To help break away from the rat race that is conventional education and forge a balance between the evolving and the constant. = 4 Years Program A mandatory 1-year internship Fully Residential Campus in the Silicon Valley of India - Bangalore Selective Admissions A holistic selection process that identifies the top 2% of outstanding students Eligibility Should be 90% in XIl) & are passionate about learning CS 30% Cracked colleges like IITs/NITs/IIITs/BITS/IISc  but chose SST for CS education 28% Students who have already built software  and some received achievements in the field 04% Chose SST over offers from global universities like Purdue & Waterloo 03% Dropped out of 1st Year B.Tech at traditional  colleges and joined SST 10 --- OCR from --- Empowering students with a 4-Year Undergraduate Programme in CS Scaler School of Technology's fully offline programme is built and delivered by experts from top tech companies. Our students get access to the Latest curriculum taught by industry experts with practical experience and a mandatory 1-year tech internship, which will ensure their success in the field of Computer Science. Additionally, to help them unlock diverse career options. They are advised to pursue in parallel, a Bachelor's degree in CS from BITS Pilani offered on Coursera and Master's degree from Woolf, which run independently from our programme. By doing this, our graduates will get the best of both worlds together and will be able to explore lucrative opportunities at worlds leading tech companies. These also help with work visa applications and serve as qualifications for exams like CAT, Civil Services, GRE, and GMAT for those who wish to pursue further studies within India or abroad. 11 --- OCR from --- *This online degree programme runs independently and SST students can pursue this degree concurrently with the Scaler School of Technology's residential undergraduate programme. It's important to note that the BITS Pilani degree is awarded separately, and admission to the degree programme is solely at the discretion of BITS Pilani. Regulation 22 of the UGC (Open and Distance Learning Programmes and Online Programmes), Regulations 2020, all degrees awarded through Open and Distance Learning mode and/or Online mode by Indian Higher Educational Institutions, recognised by UGC, are treated as equivalent to the corresponding awards of the degrees/diplomas offered through conventional mode. Students will have to complete all requirements as set by BITS Pilani for the grant of the degree in the BITS Degree Programme. **This degree is endorsed by the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS), a widely recognised accreditation system accepted by universities & organisations in the US, Europe, Canada, and numerous other countries, however, Woolf being a foreign institute is not recognised by UGC/AICTE. 12 --- OCR from --- Unlock success with The SST Advantage Graduation Scaler School of Technology Real-world, ready for 2027 and beyond Worked at Google, Meta, Microsoft & tech companies Code 50+ apps and products 1:1sessions with industry experts 1-year compulsory internship Industry ready Level of a Senior SDE Traditional Education No industry experience Theoretical written papers No dedicated a guidance No industry exposure Extra training required Level of a Junior SDE 13 --- OCR from --- --- OCR from --- Curriculum That Ensures Outcomes We developed a comprehensive curriculum based on detailed discussions with the top minds from the industry, while ensuring we do not compromise our academic standards. Our curriculum is crafted to sow strong foundational concepts of Computer Science, gradually elevating students to realise industry's expectations. tT Learn : Initial 2 Yrs : Fundamentals of DSA, Fullstack, Shell, Phase | : Frontend & work on your soft skills eee r) Experience j j j : Next 1Yr A 1-year internship at a top tech company & Phase Il receive a pre-placement offer @ Specialise Final 1Yrs In high demand fields like Al/ ML/Algo Trading Phase III : & bag placement offers from tech giants 15 --- OCR from --- Phase - I Kick-start your career with core software development skills Become a Competitive Programmer Skills you will learn: Java Basics | Basic Programming Constructs Evaluating Time and Space Complexity | Classes and Objects | Discrete Mathematics | Basic Optimisation Techniques | Recursion | Shell Scripting Become a Competitive Programmer Skills you will learn: Sorting and Searching Algorithms | Data Structures: Linked Lists, Stacks and Queues, Binary Trees, Heaps and Tries | Greedy Algorithms | Backtracking and Dynamic Programming | Maths for Programmers | Graph Theory Build an online Excel Sheet with IM+ Rows Skills you will learn: HTML/CSS | Inner-workings of the Internet | Browser architecture | JavaScript | DOM | Lazy Load | Website Optimisation Techniques | React Build an eCommerce Website Skills you will learn: Databases | SQL | Schema Design | NoSQL and NoSQL Schema Design (architecture not covered) | Indexing | 16 --- OCR from --- MVC frameworks | Get started with Spring Boot and Cloud | Integrate CDNs | Payment Gateway Integration Build a Strong Foundation for Data Science & Machine Learning Skills you will learn: Get started with Python | Linear Algebra basics for Data Science | Probability Theory and Statistics | Statistical Analysis and Inference | Hypothesis Testing | Exploratory Data Analysis Techniques | Data Manipulation with Pandas | Numerical Computing with NumPy Master Product Roadmaps and Metrics Skills you will learn: OKR Framework | Metrics for Acquisition, Activation, Engagement, Retention, Monetisation | Hands-on with Mixpanel/Google Analytics | User research and need discovery/validation | Case studies Analyse Data to Derive Business Decisions Skills you will learn: SQL | NumPy, Pandas, MatpLot, Seaborn | Web Scraping | Probability and Statistics | Case studies Micro MBA - Transformative Business Skills for Future Tech Leaders Skills you will learn: Communication Basics | Content Creation | Business Problem-Solving | Product Problem- Solving | Interview Preparation 17 --- OCR from --- Phase - Il Gain industry experience as an intern Pre-internship: Learn Your Company's Tech Stack, Unit Testing, and Documentation Skills you will learn: Build a small get-started project on the tech stack of the company you'll intern at | Art of writing unit tests | How to write documentation | Art of handling large codebases | Learn to Debug Tools 12-month Internship with Regular 1:1 Mentorship Support you will receive: Monthly/bi-weekly check-ins from a personal mentor | Correction on hard and soft skills as needed | Helping material to thrive as an intern 18 --- OCR from --- Phase - Ill Choose up to 2 specialisations to get 10 steps ahead of any graduate in the country Learn Project Management Skills you will learn: Project timeline estimation | Tooling like Gantt Charts | Stakeholder Management basics MAANG Track Skills you will learn: Number Theory | Probability and Statistics - 2 | Advance DSA | Advance Graph Theory Engineering Leadership Track Skills you will learn: Low-Level Design and Design Patterns | System Design of large-scale products with case studies | Handle large Data Streams on Cloud | VoIP - Build your own Zoom/Google Meet | Cybersecurity Basics | Data Engineering: Create Data Lakes | Spark/Map Reduce Jobs | Design apple like Facebook Messenger 19 --- OCR from --- Algo Trading Track Skills you will learn: System Programming using C/C++ | Multi-threading and Concurrent Programming - 2| Advance DSA | Probability and Statistics - 2 | Linear Algebra | Stocks and Derivatives - 101| Quant Research Methods Al/ML Track Skills you will learn: Probability and Statistics - 2 | Linear Algebra | Classical ML - Supervised Learning | Classical ML - Unsupervised Learning | Computer Vision | NLP | Build Recommendation Engine | Develop a voice-activated assistant similar to Siri/Alex | Self-Driving Car Software 20 --- OCR from --- Our Teaching Army Who'll Go Above & Beyond Students will learn from those who are breaking new ground, have developed scalable systems and products, nurtured unicorns and companies worth $10 billion, and built a legacy in the tech industry. Anshuman Singh Ex- facebook --- OCR from --- Meet Our Expert Instructors Regular classes by industry experts who have built real-world products. Gain invaluable insights directly from the who's who of the tech world. Kshitij ize) Naman -. Mishra Bhalla Ex- @ snapdeal Ex- Google Pragy Agarwal Ex-media.net Shivank Agrawal Ex- 8% Microsoft Dr.Srishty Deepak Gajbhiye oe Kasera Doctrate in Philosophy, Ex- amazon Career Development ed Coach 100+ Tech Experts as Instructors 22 --- OCR from --- Meet Our Mentors Expert Techies To help students overcome the uphill battles of college with confidence our mentors who are industry techies provide regular 1:1 mentorship that offers end-to-end clarity. This helps our students embark on a transformative voyage of growth and resilience. Yash Vardhan Nishant Raizada Prakash SWE Sr. Software Engineer = Microsoft VISA Divya Vinod Karia Kumar Software Engineer Software Engineer Googl OO Meta and 100+ Techies --- OCR from --- Coming from a small town with no idea about computers to becoming aCTO leading 200 engineers, my journey resonates with SSTs vision to empower individuals with relevant skills and build future tech leaders, regardless of their background. see Subhas Choudhary Co-Founder & CTO, Dukaan PR; wD Institutions like SST play a crucial role in shaping the future through quality education that meets real-world needs. I'm glad that | could take time out to be here. Bhavin Turakhia, CEO, Zeta 24 --- OCR from --- Meet Our Super Mentors Top Industry CTOs & Leaders To fuel students learning and pour inspiration we hold quarterly sessions with top CTOs who have built apps like Zomato, Uber, Amazon Fresh, and more. Rajan Anandan Apurva Dalal Jacob Singh Ajey Gore Ex-VP SEA Ex-Engineering Leader Ex-CTO Operating Partner Tech Batch Success Managers Our In-house Residential Support From resolving everyday college problems to motivating students to step out of their comfort zone, our in-house residential support  Batch Success Managers will go the extra mile. --- OCR from --- SST's Management Visionary, Efficient, & Driven Towards Excellence Who have supported legendary companies like Apple, Google, and others that are now trillion-dollar companies. ia Abhimanyu Saxena Bhavik Rathod Saurabh Saxena  Co-founder, Scaler President, SST COO, Scaler & SST Ex-Fab.com Built Uber India Founding Team, Scaler Manmeet Singh Akali Manish Pansari Yash Dandavate Programme Director, SST Sr. VP Data Science, Head - Admissions & Strategy, SST Ex- Founder, Klarity Scaler | Led Ops Team, Myntra London Business School | IIM-C Alum Amar Srivastava Tushar Bisht VP & Head of Product, Scaler CTO, Scaler IIT- Dethi Alum Ex-Facebook 26 --- OCR from --- Placement Assistance at Scaler School of Technology 1200+ Career Partners Giving learners the choice of a stellar line-up to start their career! --- OCR from --- 100% Placement Assistance to help learners land offers from top tech companies, we provide dedicated career support 100+ Career Specialists Career Specialists to ensure personal attention for CV building and interview preparation tips 30K+ Scaler Community to network and connect Google amazon = FiMicrosoft = JN Adobe = MindTickle# Flipkart olga MAMyntra GOLA mediannet olx NUTAND Incase the students need any academic or personal assistance, the residential faculty and Batch Success Managers are available for 24/7 guidance. Additionally to look after the well-being and mental health of our students we have partnered with Lissun. ~ ta Ag i 37 --- OCR from --- The Innovation Lab Ideate. Iterate. Innovate. --- OCR from --- 1] @-LYG- G To foster deep-tech start-ups and solve impactful problems, SST's Innovation Lab is a dedicated space where students get to work on ground-breaking ideas and projects that can impact society. Students also get the opportunity to receive funding from top investors like Sequoia and Lightrock, giving them a platform to enable their entrepreneurial pursuits. Industry leaders, top CTOs & CEOs from MAANG-like companies withprofound domain knowledge, and Scalers in-house engineering experts guide and mentor students by providing real-world exposure right from their initial days. Under their guidance, our 1st year students are collaborating on a transformative project with Bhashini, the Government of Indias Al-powered, multi-lingual, translation platform to create a tool that aims at removing language barriers between Indian languages. 39 --- OCR from --- Student-led Clubs Our learning isnt just limited to classrooms. Our students have access to all opportunities essential to become a well-rounded and high-functioning individual. We have several activities and clubs for them to participate in like  e Is Competitive Programming Club Mirroring SSTs commitment to hands-on learning, the club is a preparation doorway to competitive programming and hackathons. Members of the club are some of the youngest qualifiers of ICPC - The Olympics of Coding. @@ #Open - Source Club Embedding open-source principles, the club promotes collaborative development by encouraging students to grow as developers. Members of the club partake in initiatives like Google Summer of Code (GSoC) and more. 40 --- OCR from --- Cs) Media Club Showcasing our vibrant campus life and engagement with industry leaders, the club enhances intangible skills  public speaking, storytelling, content creation, and presentation in the ever-evolving digital landscape. Members of the club play a vital role by promptly resolving admission queries online. e Sports % Club Resonating SST's emphasis on a balanced Lifestyle, the club promotes physical well-being by organising sports tournaments - basketball, tennis, football, cricket, and badminton. Cultural 32C Club Students tap into their hidden talents and stay culturally aware via various competitions  dance, music, theatre, etc. Entrepreneurship Club Reflecting SST's ethos of fostering industry culture, this club provides a foundational understanding of startups, business strategies, and innovation by encouraging students to develop and pitch business ideas. Ted Talk Tribe Cultivating a culture of growth, the Ted Talk Tribe encourages students to innovate by organising events and workshops with top industry leaders. Heres a sneak peek Click here to check it out now! --- OCR from --- Eligibility and Admissions We look forward to having those who aspire to become the top 1% of Software Engineers & Data Science professionals. --- OCR from --- Dates & Deadlines Academics Candidates should be < 20 years of age as of July'24, must have studied Mathematics in XtIl. Their X & XIl scores (expected/final) from recognised boards - CBSE, ISC, IB, |GCSE or equivalent. Entrance Test - NSET The online proctored 120-minute test evaluates skills required for CS and related fields in addition to astudents mindset to achieve excellence. Profile Evaluation Upon clearing Scaler NSET, candidate's profile evaluation is done to assess interests based on which a success-driven pathway is created. It is advised to apply as early as possible, as more scholarships are offered in earlier rounds. Keep an eye on our website, for important updates. NSET Syllabus Scalers National Scholarship & Entrance Test is divided into 3 sections: @ Mathematics Download prep-kit @ Logical Reasoning @ Learning Ability | CLICK HERE 43 --- OCR from --- Application Process Our application process chalks out performance based on grades & aptitude including both objective & subjective type questions. Fill out the Application Form Create your profile with your details, academic performance & eligibility details for scholarships Block A Slot For Scaler (NSET) Select a suitable slot for the entrance test. The application fee for intake 1is INR 1,000 Take Scaler NSET Applicants will be shortlisted solely based on test scores. Personal Interview Round Those shortlisted, you will be invited for a 1:1 Interview to assess their motivation & goals Admission & Scholarship Results The team will get back with a final decision within 30 days or less Note: To ensure a fair selection the test will be conducted online using a strict Al-based proctoring software that monitors the candidates desktop activity, webcam video, and audio. 44 --- OCR from --- Fee Structure Admission Fees Tuition Fee* Hostel & Mess Fees (Non-Refundable) Year 1 =50000/- =1,99,666/- =1,43,000/- Onwards Year 2 - =3,99,666/- =163,000/- Onwards Year 3 - =3,99,666/- Optional- Internship Year 4 - %3,34,000/- =1,87,000/- Onwards : Hostel & Mess Fees is on a triple sharing basis. For additional details and options for double sharing, please discuss with your admission counsellor once you secure an offer + Please note that while we strive to keep our course fees affordable, they may be subject to revision in the future due to factors such as changes in market conditions, inflation, or regulatory requirements. BITS Pilani Tuition Fee** Year Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 quition 21,04,334/- 21,04,334/- 21,04,334/- xk BSc. Computer Science by BITS Pilani For students enrolling in this degree by BITS Pilani, will have to pay this directly to them as per their schedulen Details of the BITS Course Fees can be found 45 --- OCR from --- Scholarships & Evaluation Criteria We believe financial limitations should not hinder one's academic pursuits. To that end, we offer scholarships ranging from 10% to 100% of the tuition fee, based on the student's academic profile. All scholarships will be awarded by the Scaler Impact Foundation; supported by industry stalwarts like Vijay Shekhar Sharma (Founder & CEO, Paytm) and Prasanna Sankar (Co-Founder, Rippling). nee **@iman. --- OCR from --- Scholarships we offer: x Brightest Minds Scholarship This scholarship recognises and rewards candidates with exceptional academic achievements in competitive exams. Eligibility: With exceptional academic performance in tests such as the JEE, CBSE exam, KVPY, NTSE, etc. wv Women in Tech Scholarship To support and encourage talented female students who have a passion for coding and a desire to pursue a career in technology. Eligibility: Exceptional women candidates who can demonstrate their affinity for coding through tech competitions, events, or more. Evaluation Criteria: Academic achievements (10th / 12th%) Achievements in JEE or equivalent competitive exams or Scaler NSET score Extracurricular projects and contributions (Technical/Non-Technical/Leadership roles) Family's financial profile Please note that the scholarship decisions are rule-based to keep it fair for all applicants and at the sole discretion of Scaler Impact Foundation and Scholarship sponsors. These decisions are final and will not be revisited. 47 --- OCR from --- Testimonials Dont take our word for it, take theirs! Ishan Sarma SDE!, amazon T Perhaps the biggest challenge in my journey was to find the right place that would give structure to my Learning. Scaler's course really helped in away my college couldn't. Vinayak G Bhat SWE, Google Scaler gave me a community of thousands of people coming together to work together towards a common goal. The community-focused learning & mentorship really pushed me to become a more confident version of myself! Paawanjot Kaur Student at SST | have never experienced such proximity with instructors and teaching assistants as | do at SST. Their steady guidance and availability push me to broaden my horizons.  Yash Arya Student at SST In just 5 months, SST has improved my learning curve drastically. Regular mentorship has helped me with projects, & have attended sessions with big personalities like Mohak Mangal and Bhavin Turakhia. Aman Yadav Student at SST My quest for the perfect fit led me to SST. Their industry -vetted curriculum was like a siren song that brought me south, and in just 6 months, | aced Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Python. Hands down the best decision ever. 48 --- OCR from --- Connect with our students 49 --- OCR from --- SCALER School of Technology